Parliament is demanding answers on allegations that the National Prosecuting Authority deliberately delayed making arrests in the highprofile investigation into allegations of wrongdoing at the Gupta-linked Vrede dairy farm project. And they want the answers on Wednesday. “Parliament’s portfolio committee on justice and correctional services and the portfolio committee on police convened a special joint sitting on Wednesday March 7 to interrogate revelations that the Directorate of Priority Crime Investigation (the Hawks) investigations into state capture were impeded by slow decision-making by the NPA‚” a statement issued yesterday read. The statement was issued jointly by Mathole Motshekga and Francois Beukman‚ the respective chairs of the justice and police portfolio committees. “The chairpersons indicated that both the head of the NPA‚ Advocate Shaun Abrahams‚ and the acting head of the Hawks‚ Lieutenant-General Yolisa Matakata‚ will be invited to the meeting‚” the statement continued. Motshekga and Beukman said the meeting would come after the police portfolio committee heard on February 28 that the NPA had delayed the arrest of suspects in the Vrede dairy farm case. “even though Hawks finalised its investigation into the matter in 2017”. “We cannot have the public doubt our institutions and‚ therefore‚ we need to get to the bottom of this. “The NPA will have to explain why there was such a long delay‚” Motshekga said. Beukman added that Wednesday’s meeting was important to understand the obstacles faced by the Hawks in doing their job. “The efforts of the Hawks to fight organised crime should not be hampered by slow decision-making. Prosecution-driven cases dealing with state capture and court-ready dockets should be prioritised‚” he said. – TimesLIVE Police Minister Nathi Nhleko has taken his bid to oust Hawks head Anwa Dramat to parliament, asking MPs to start a process of firing him. Nhleko appeared before the police portfolio committee yesterday to explain why he had suspended the head of the Directorate for Priority Crimes Investigation Unit. The… January 30, 2015 Defiant NPA deputy won’t sign summons to appear in court THE national prosecuting authority’s deputy head, Advocate Nomgcobo Jiba, has refused to sign a summons to appear in court, reportedly telling her boss that she answers only to President Jacob Zuma. Jiba and prosecuting authority chief Advocate Mxolisi Nxasana had… March 27, 2015 The DA will call on Parliament to look into the appointment of National Prosecuting Authority head Mxolisi Nxasana, the party said on Wednesday (04/06/2014). "Recent allegations in the media around Mr Nxasana raise serious concerns, not only with regard to the process followed in appointing this national director, but also… June 4, 2014