DA leader Mmusi Maimane says expropriation of land without compensation is state-sanctioned theft. Maimane‚ addressing a press conference at Constitution Hill on Monday‚ said his party will continue opposing the proposed constitutional amendments to effect expropriation without compensation. “Property rights are the bedrock of development and economic growth. Expropriation without compensation is state-sanctioned theft‚ which is inimical to economic growth and development‚ ” said Maimane. He said his party stood for protection of all individual rights‚ including the right for individuals to own property. “We regard the attempt to amend the constitution as nothing but a populist effort to scapegoat the constitution for the failure of the ANC‚ over twenty years‚ to reform land ownership‚ ” added Maimane. Maimane instead called for a handing-out of more title deeds to beneficiaries of RDP houses. “We reject the hate-filled racist undertones employed by the EFF and the ANC in this debate‚ which seeks to divide the country according to race for narrow political ends‚ and which seeks to deligitimise those who disagree‚” said Maimane. Malema warns of threat to coalition alliance after Maimane speaks against lack of compensation The government’s plans to expropriate land without compensation have pitted the EFF and the DA against each other in parliament‚ threatening the parties’ alliance pact at municipal level. The divisions emerged yesterday during the parliamentary debate… February 20, 2018 The EFF is targeting Athol Trollip because he is white. This was said by DA leader Mmusi Maimane outside the City Hall yesterday, in response to the planned motion of no confidence on April 6 which seeks to remove Trollip as mayor. Maimane was in the Bay visiting voting stations,… March 12, 2018 Expropriation without compensation is against constitution, ruling party says The ANC has shot down the EFF’s latest proposal for expropriation of land without compensation, saying such a move would be unconstitutional. Parliament yesterday debated the EFF’s motion, amid growing calls for the government to fast track land reform. The motion… March 1, 2017