President Cyril Ramaphosa and Deputy President David Mabuza have extended an olive branch to EFF leader Julius Malema and others‚ urging them to return “home” to the ANC. “We would love to have Julius Malema back in the ANC. He is still ANC down‚ deep in his heart‚” Ramaphosa said yesterday. He also urged others to rejoin the ANC. “The ANC is the home of many political parties that splintered out of it and we would like to build unity among all our people.” Mabuza said earlier yesterday that he had a “special space in my heart” for Malema. “We had times together. He knows,” Mabuza said. “When he was in the ANC‚ I supported him to be the president of the youth league and I remember comrade Julius saying‚ ‘My blood is black‚ green and gold. I will never leave the ANC’. “The ANC will be better off with him inside the fold‚ so I am going to do my best to request him to reconsider coming back home.” Ramaphosa and Mabuza were on the campaign trail in Pretoria and Centurion yesterday. The Electoral Commission (IEC) this weekend held a registration drive and address update campaign in preparation for the 2019 national and provincial elections. Ramaphosa said the ANC was willing to work with political parties that had similar ideologies and policies to the ANC. “I have always been open to receiving back those who have left and formed new parties.” He said the ANC aimed to win back the Tshwane‚ Johannesburg and Nelson Mandela Bay metros in the general elections next year. “They are in our palm and all we need to do is to close our hand and all the metros are back under the African National Congress’s control.” Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says the newly elected president of the African National Congress (ANC)‚ Cyril Ramaphosa‚ does not have what it takes to resurrect the embattled party. He also says there is an immunity offer under discussion for Jacob Zuma to leave the SA presidency ahead… January 9, 2018 Chandré Prince and Amukelani Chauke JULIUS Malema's R4.6-million money-laundering charge and a R16-million tax bill have sown ugly rifts within the ANC – this time pitting the party's headquarters against its Limpopo provincial executive committee (PEC). The ANC distanced itself yesterday from accusations that the charges were politically motivated, a… September 27, 2012 Whatever decision ANC takes, president will not be humiliated, says Ramaphosa The issue of recalling President Jacob Zuma is a delicate matter, newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said in a television broadcast at the weekend. He told broadcaster eNCA that whatever decision the party’s newly elected national executive committee… January 15, 2018