The EP Rugby Union (EPRU) has effectively regained control of the Southern Kings PRO14 team and union president Andre Rademan is predicting a golden era for the region at both professional and amateur level. SA Rugby yesterday named a new board to manage the affairs of the Southern Kings which will feature representatives of the EPRU as well as independent members. The board elected Rademan as chairman and businessman and sports official Mtobi Tyamzashe as deputy chairman. “The fact that the EP president is chairman of the board effectively brings the Kings back under our control,” Rademan said. “We are busy with a turnaround strategy to become winners. We are talking to agents about who we can sign. “In my opinion we need at least four or five big names, because that can change the perception of the Kings. I have never been more optimistic about the future of Eastern Province rugby than now. “A lot of stakeholders have played their part and my executive must take special credit. Everything is falling into place and the cement is there.” Other EP representatives on the new board are deputy president Bantwini Matika and EPRU finance committee chairman Shaheed Patel. Tyamzashe, Gugu Nxiweni and Mxolisi Nkula were elected as independent directors and Charl Crous, chief operating officer of the Southern Kings, completes the board. They replace the executive council of SA Rugby and SA Rugby chief executive Jurie Roux, who had the custodianship of the franchise since being asked to take over in November 2015. Board to be formed to oversee handing over of control to EPRU A process designed to eventually hand the EP Rugby Union (EPRU) full control of the Southern Kings PRO14 team has begun, union president Andre Rademan said. A board will be formed shortly comprising three EPRU members and three… September 29, 2017 New recruits will revitalise the ailing Southern Kings when they kick off their second season of PRO14 rugby in September, EP Rugby Union president Andre Rademan said. Earlier this month, Rademan met Kings head coach Deon Davids and chief operating officer Charl Crous to discuss the road ahead. The Kings… March 1, 2018 Rademan mum after talks ahead of Kings game The billionaire owner of top French rugby club Stade Français, Hans-Peter Wild, held talks with EP Rugby Union president Andre Rademan at the weekend. Wild, reported to be worth $2.7-billion (R33.2billion), met Rademan in the presidential suite at the Nelson Mandela Bay… January 16, 2018