South African blues rock guitarist Dan Patlansky will be launching his new album, titled Perfection Kills with a performance at the Splash Festival this weekend in Port Elizabeth. The album is the follow-up to 2016’s critically acclaimed Introvertigo, which was voted #1 Blues Rock Album in the world by Blues Rock Review USA, and his ninth studio offering. As well as playing in Nelson Mandela Bay on Sunday, Patlansky also will be performing at Rock Lily in Cape St Francis the night before, on Saturday March 31. Patlansky recorded Perfection Kills at Scherzo Productions, a recording studio in his home city of Pretoria and he produced the album himself, something he had not done in years. “I learnt so much working with Theo Crous, who was the producer on my previous two albums, Dear Silence Thieves and Introvertigo,” said the musician. “I worked on pre-production and songwriting with Theo on a couple of the tracks for Perfection Kills and applied what I learnt to the recording and production process of the album. “Perfection Kills is all about my vision of making a record that still makes the songwriting a priority as in the past; the final product delivers a far more real and organic result,” he said. Patlansky hopes listeners will feel that what sets the new album apart from its predecessors is the honesty and live sound of the songs. Patlansky specifically recorded the 10 tracks to come across very close to what they will sound like when performing them live. It is an album he has wanted to make for a few years now, setting out to get the sound and production in his head across to listeners in a raw and charmingly rough way. Patlansky will be launching his new album on the Hobie Beach stage at the Splash Festival at about 5pm on Sunday April 1. For more information, call (041) 364-0028 or 061-443-3968 or e-mail: rsvp@soulgood.co.za. Brett Adkins IT'S not surprising that blues and rock supremo Dan Patlansky – having just won the National Arts Festival's top accolade in Grahamstown – believes the Eastern Cape has been good to him. But his gold Ovation Award apart, this acoustic guitar wizard is actually talking about the fan… July 12, 2013 WITH only three days left to enjoy the annual arts festival in Grahamstown and its spin-offs in Port Elizabeth, the following are few suggestions drawn from today's programme, with a number continuing into the weekend. 10am today and tomorrow: Raiders: The Great War, Fringe comedy, St Andrew's Hall A firm… July 11, 2014 The Bridge Street Brewery will say “goodbye for now” to Charlie Finch at his official send-off party this evening at 6pm, where he will be performing his last gig before his big move to Johannesburg to further his music career. The Bay singer-songwriter started his music career in 2012 in… February 3, 2017