South African billionaire Magda Wierzycka apologised on Wednesday for commemorating the Sharpeville Massacre in a tweet featuring a photograph of Hector Pieterson. Wierzycka tweeted the iconic photograph of Pieterson’s body being carried away after he was shot during the Soweto uprisings on June 16‚ 1976. Pieterson was the first person killed in the protests against the sole use of Afrikaans in schools. “Let’s never forget March 21 1960‚” Wierzycka tweeted. Human Rights Day on Wednesday commemorates the anti-pass demonstration outside the Sharpeville police station near Vereeniging on March 21‚ 1960 where 69 people were killed and close to 200 people were injured. Protesters marched to the police station to hand over their passes and demanded an end to the pass laws before the police opened fire on the crowd. Commentators were quick to rebuke Wierzycka‚ suggesting she needed to brush up on her history.   Wierzycka apologised and said: “This has always been the iconic image of the massacres that happened in SA. Never again.”  She later tweeted a photograph from Sharpeville.  At the weekend‚ Wierzycka apologised and offered R200‚000 for job creation after tweeting: “I often get asked‚ how can I help SA? Our biggest challenge = job creation. A thought: let every household employ just 1 more cleaning lady or gardener. Just 1. I know it’s a financial sacrifice. But we all need to sacrifice if we are to save SA. Imagine the impact.” Wierzycka later deleted her original tweet. “I withdraw the comment. I thought it was a practical solution to a short-term serious problem of people living on social grants. I apologise if I offended anyone.” – TimesLIVE Corpses scattered across a police station precinct‚ the brutal beatings of injured survivors and pregnant women running for cover. This is the savage scene that still haunts survivors of the Sharpeville massacre today. The tragedy‚ commemorated this week‚ claimed the lives of over 60 people who gathered to protest against… March 23, 2017 The PAC held a separate event than the ANC. On 21 March 1960 the Sharpville massacre occurred when the Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) organised a protest in which black Africans burnt the pass books which restricted them from going in certain areas. What had started as a peaceful protest soon became violent, as… March 21, 2016 With the recent wave of racist incidents reaching a new peak today‚ after a pizza-delivery motorcyclist was deliberately targeted by a racist driver in Port Elizabeth‚ the Anti-Racism Network (ARN) announced on Monday that this week (14-21 March) was Anti-Racism Week. The campaign‚ which is being supported by various organisations‚… March 14, 2016