A third woman has been arrested for allegedly recruiting girls for Pastor Tim Omotoso. Nobubele Mlindi, 31, was arrested on Thursday after handing herself over to the Hawks’ Trafficking in Persons Team (TIP) in Port Elizabeth. She later appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court where she faces charges of Trafficking in Person and Exploitation for sexual purposes. Hawks spokeswoman Captain Anelisa Feni said Mlindi, who worked at the health department in Port Elizabeth at the time, recruited girls from around the country between 2012 and 2016 to live at Omoto’s KwaZulu-Natal home. “It is further alleged that she, at certain periods, was the house mother for this house. Mlindi now resides at Mmabatho in the North West,” Feni said. Omotoso, 59, was arrested in Port Elizabeth in April last year. He is facing multiple charges related to the contravention of the Sexual Offences Act, including numerous charges of rape. Some of the alleged victims were as young as 13. Two other women arrested for recruiting the girls, Zukiwa Sitho, 28, and Lusanda Solani, 36, were granted R2 000 bail by the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court in November. Mlindi was released on R2 000 bail on Thursday. The three women are expected back in court, with Omotoso, on April 11. Two women will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Friday following their arrests for allegedly recruiting girls for controversial pastor Timothy Omotoso. Omotoso, who is currently facing multiple charges of multiple charges related to contravention of the Sexual Offences Act, is also charged with two counts of rape.… November 22, 2017 Link between Omotoso and Hawks investigated Links between Hawks officials and Nigerian pastor Timothy Omotoso will be investigated after he allegedly received a tip-off that helped him evade arrest last month. This was revealed in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court yesterday, where 18 more charges – all relating to sexual… May 4, 2017 A heavily pregnant woman and another who recently gave birth appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court yesterday on charges linked to the recruitment of women for Nigerian pastor Timothy Omotoso. Lusanda Solani, 36, of Durban and Zukiswa Sitho, 28, of Humewood, stand accused of being accessories to the 48… November 25, 2017