Attack will be the nature of the game as Woodridge go about defending their title when the PE Central edition of the SPAR Eastern Cape Schoolgirls Hockey Challenge takes place at Westering tomorrow. A total of 10 schools, divided into two sections, will vie for the honour of representing the region at the provincial finals which will be held at Woodridge, just outside Port Elizabeth, in August. The co-ed school won the tournament in thrilling style last year and coach Maxime Bird said there was an air of excitement in their camp as they prepared for tomorrow’s showdown. “The girls are really looking forward to this challenge and for a school like ours, which does not have that many matches during the year, this is a great tournament to be involved in,” she said. “There is a lot of intensity during the day because the matches are played over such a short time [15 minutes] and it’s a matter of attack, attack, attack. “It’s not the sort of format where you can park the bus and defend because a draw doesn’t mean much, so you have to aim at scoring goals.” Coming at the start of the season, Bird said they had not had much preparation, but all the teams were in the same boat. “We only chose our side last week, but have a few players back from last year and some nice young talent with quite a bit of depth,” she said. “I think it will come down to how the team gels on the day.” Bird said that schools such as Collegiate and Pearson would always be strong contenders, while Alexander Road were also a difficult side to face in the matches. “They play a hard-running game and are always tough in this format because they attack so much,” she said. “You really have to be on the alert the whole time, in attack and defence, to have a chance of going through.” Divided into two groups of five, the teams will play a round-robin section before going into the playoffs. The top two teams in each pool will qualify for the semifinals, starting at 2.35pm. The final is scheduled for 4pm. The pools are: A pool: Pearson, Woodridge, Victoria Park, Despatch, Nico Malan; Collegiate, Westering, Linkside, Framesby, Alexander Road. B pool: Collegiate, Westering, Linkside, Framesby, Alexander Road. Hockey teams win against Woodridge and Framesby Collegiate Girls’ High School came out tops in a full schedule of hockey fixtures against Woodridge and Framesby. Collegiate won all five of the games played against their opponents. Both first team matches were well-contested fixtures. On Thursday, Woodridge hosted Collegiate and the… May 31, 2017 Kingswood College, who narrowly lost out last year, will be looking to go all the way when they host the PE North edition of the SPAR Eastern Cape Schoolgirls Challenge in Grahamstown on Saturday. This tournament was first played in the Eastern Cape two years ago and has become a… March 16, 2018 SPAR extending sponsorship Collegiate were crowned the inaugural champions in the SPAR Eastern Cape Schoolgirls Hockey Challenge when they defeated Hudson Park in an exciting final at Woodridge on Saturday. In a day of entertaining hockey that saw five teams vying for the honours, PE Coastal winners Collegiate and East… August 16, 2016