The three men who attempted to stow away on a ship due to leave the Port Elizabeth Harbour on Monday evening are in the country illegally. Tall Ismail, 18, John Clement, 18, and Alidi Mohammed, 25, boarded the liquefied petroleum gas tanker Azeri Gas sometime during the early hours of Monday morning. They climbed into the ship’s funnel and were arrested during a search before the ship left port. The three had inhaled engine fumes and were admitted to hospital for treatment. All three men appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court yesterday and were remanded in custody. Police said that the men failed to provide any form of identification, passports, visas or permits to show they were legally in South Africa. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said the men had all been discharged from hospital and detained at the Humewood police station. “All three were detained for charges under the Immigration Act,” she said. “We are waiting for Home Affairs to verify their status in the country. “They will be formally charged in court and handed over to the immigration officials at Home Affairs to investigate.” Janse van Rensburg said it was unclear when and how the men arrived in South Africa and why they wanted to board the Azeri Gas. The men are due to appear in the same court tomorrow.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Three stowaways have been admitted to hospital, one in a serious condition, after they were found hiding in the chimney of a ship that was due to leave the Port Elizabeth harbour on Monday afternoon. The Tanzanians, aged between 28 and 33, are believed to have boarded the liquefied petroleum gas… March 12, 2018 THREE Port Elizabeth businessmen were arrested on Friday, September 7, following a six-month joint investigation into suspected “rogue” salvage divers who pillage historic wrecks for scrap metal along the Eastern Cape coastline. January 25, 2014 Three suspected gangsters were arrested after allegedly throwing their stolen guns into the yard of a house while trying to run away from police. The three men, all believed to be affiliated to the Spotbouer gang, were caught at 7pm on Monday. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said police members… February 15, 2017