Ousted Zimbabwean president Robert Mugabe feels the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and South Africa in particular let him down when the army forced him into retirement in November last year. Speaking to journalists of international media houses in Harare on Thursday for the first time since his removal‚ Mugabe said a bad precedent had been set. “In a way I feel betrayed‚ but you also have to look at their [neighbouring countries’] conditions. Besides South Africa‚ most of them did not have the capacity to intervene. “South Africa could have done more‚ but it didn’t,” Mugabe said. When Mugabe was holed up at his private residence during the military operation‚ he spoke telephonically to then president Jacob Zuma, who later sent a team of negotiators led by Defence and Military Veterans Minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula and then state security minister Bongani Bongo. At the time Emmerson Mnangagwa had fled to South Africa. He returned when Mugabe had been forced to resign. But before returning home‚ Mnangagwa, subsequently named president, separately met Zuma and his then deputy, Cyril Ramaphosa. In response to the media interview, Mnangagwa said his former boss was free to do as he pleased, as in the case of any private citizen, since he had resigned from office constitutionally. The nation had moved on from the Mugabe era, he said, in response to Mugabe’s claims that he was ousted in an illegal coup d’etat. “I say it was a coup d’etat -some people have refused to call it a coup d’etat,” Mugabe told the SABC. “We must undo this disgrace which we have imposed on ourselves, we don’t deserve it . . . Zimbabwe doesn’t deserve it,” Mugabe said. Mnangagwa’s brief response, posted on his official Twitter account and bearing the seal of the presidency, said, “The nation has moved on. “Our focus at this time shall remain on preparing for free, fair and credible elections in 2018.” – TimesLIVE with additional reporting by AFP  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe refused to resign at a crunch meeting yesterday with military generals, who have seized control of the country, and South African envoys. The talks in Harare came after tumultuous days in which soldiers blockaded key roads, took over state TV and put the veteran leader under… November 17, 2017 South Africa's Minister of Defence and Military Veterans‚ Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula‚ and the Minister of State Security‚ Advocate Bongani Bongo‚ are being dispatched to Zimbabwe to meet with President Robert Mugabe and the Zimbabwean Defence Force. This was announced by President Jacob Zuma‚ in his capacity as chairperson of the Southern… November 15, 2017 The day started with reports of shots being fired outside Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe’s house, and ended with a Southern African Development Community delegation hastily leaving for Harare in an attempt to stop an audacious and carefully coordinated coup attempt from succeeding. What transpired from early yesterday had all the… November 16, 2017