Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs minister Zweli Mkhize has declared the drought and water crisis affecting parts of the country as a national state of disaster. He was speaking at a briefing by the interministerial task team on drought and water scarcity on Tuesday.  Mkhize said that South Africa “should continue to save water as water is one of the indispensable commodities”. There were no comforting signs of improvement in three of the worst affected provinces‚ Western Cape‚ parts of Northern Cape‚ and Eastern Cape. Mkhize said that dam levels in the western Cape were the lowest in the country at 25‚5%. Gauteng has the highest dam levels at 92‚8%‚ followed by Mpumalanga at 77‚9% and Northern Cape at 67‚9%. Despite these higher dam levels these provinces‚ he cautioned‚ were not out of the woods in terms of water scarcity. The reclassification of the drought as a national state of disaster will allow government to tackle the problem in a coordinated way with access to funding reserved for national disasters. R7bn requested for Bay alone as East Cape set to be declared disaster area The Eastern Cape government, in a desperate bid to end the province’s water crisis, has requested R7.7-billion from the national government for drought intervention – with the bulk of the money earmarked for Nelson Mandela Bay.… February 9, 2018 The Eastern Cape government has called on drought-stricken Western Cape farmers to consider moving their farming operations to the Eastern Cape. Eastern Cape Rural Development and Agrarian Reform MEC Mlibo Qoboshiyane said the province was implementing an agriculture economic transformation strategy‚ which needs investment in crop‚ grain and livestock production.… February 16, 2018 Half of South Africa could be declared an official drought zone. Officials in the Western Cape, Free State, Limpopo and the Northern Cape are currently considering applying to be declared drought areas. KwaZulu-Natal was officially given drought status late last year. The Department of Water Affairs and the various KZN… March 12, 2015