Municipal debt shock for PE woman not informed of RDP property allocated to her A Nelson Mandela Bay woman is still destitute five years after her RDP house was approved but allocated to another resident. Thozama Charles, 54, said she submitted her first application for an RDP house in Motherwell 15 years ago. Thereafter, she never received any form of communication from the municipality updating her on the status of the application – until five years ago, when she started getting threats from debt collectors representing the municipality. Charles said that, in June 2012, she was shocked when she received a bill of more than R25 000 for services on a property she had never set foot on. A warrant of execution was also issued by municipal lawyers for the house in Koliti Street, Ikamvelihle. Charles said when she took the matter up in 2012 with the municipality, she was told the officials could not trace her to inform her that her application had been successful. “That is far from the truth. I have always lived with my brother and used his address in Zwide, while waiting for this house. “How did their lawyers manage to find me when I was threatened with legal letters? “They were sent to the Zwide address. The human settlements department cannot now claim they could not trace me.” In 2015, a preliminary metro-initiated audit submitted to the human settlements portfolio committee revealed a situation where, in one area, more than half of the houses audited were illegally occupied. Of the 480 RDP houses audited in Ward 21, Kwazakhele, 255 were occupied by people who were not the registered beneficiaries. In Ward 36, KwaDwesi, 189 of the 1 071 houses audited were not occupied by the rightful owners. Human settlements directorate executive director Nolwandle Gqiba said on Friday that the issue of beneficiary was very complex, and undertook to get an update. Asked why the house was given to someone else, metro spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki said: “Human settlements allocated the house to another resident as the house remained unoccupied.” The balance owing was R687 and arrears were written off in terms of automatic assistance to the poor granted on properties with a value of R100 000 and less, he said. THEY have bone dry taps in their homes – but astonishingly, municipal water bills are flowing freely onto their doorsteps. So how does a waterless tap equal harsh water billing? This is what irate Missionvale residents who do not have running water in their homes have been asking for the… January 27, 2016 Their taps are dry and their flush toilets have no running water, but the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality is demanding that two Missionvale residents pay their water bills or face the possibility of having their electricity meters blocked. Nonkqubo Gcezengana and Anne Moses claim that for, the past five months,… March 17, 2017 DISGRUNTLED Kwazakhele residents are determined to force their neighbours to move so that new RDP homes can be built. MK Silvertown residents said the municipality had told them to move, as RDP homes would be built within eight months. The residents say eight people are refusing to move from the… July 23, 2015