One of the men convicted of the April 2015 murder of Uitenhage school teacher Jayde Panayiotou appeared briefly in the Port Elizabeth High Court yesterday, along with three other suspects, on another charge of murder. Sinethemba Nemembe, 28, with Fikile Mengo, 20, Mkhuseli Ngqanda, 29, and Thanduxolo Vumazonke, 23, are charged with the 2015 murder of Denise Webber as well as robbery with aggravating circumstances. It is alleged all of the accused robbed and murdered Webber, 78, at her Kabega Park home in August 2015 after they gained entry to the property with the help of Webber’s casual labourer, Mengo. In the indictment before court, the state alleges that Nemembe, Ngqanda and Vumazonke arrived at Webber’s Needham Street home, where they met Mengo before tying up Webber and her domestic worker, Nolukhanyo Mafuduka, with cables. Webber was strangled to death while tied up. It is alleged that after they had ransacked the house, the accused loaded the stolen items into the vehicle they had arrived in and fled the scene. Webber’s bank card was then used to withdraw money from an ATM in Newton Park. Vumazonke is the cousin of the alleged hitman in the Panayiotou case, Sizwezakhe Vumazonke, 30, who died in prison while awaiting trial. Panayioutou’s husband, Christopher, and Nemembe are serving life sentences for her murder. The trial for the Webber matter is set to start on August 20. One of the alleged hitmen accused of murdering Uitenhage teacher Jayde Panayiotou delayed court proceedings yesterday when he was called to appear in another court on a separate murder charge. Sinethemba Nemembe, 28, is accused of strangling an elderly woman to death in her Kunene Park home just four months… November 22, 2016 ‘Hitman’ Nemembe appears in leg irons at trial One of the men accused of murdering Jayde Panayiotou rocked up with a pair of shackles when he appeared in court this week, raising a few questions as to how he acquired the new accessory. It has since emerged that Sinethemba Nemembe,… April 21, 2017 Police investigating killing of elderly Kunene Park woman found fresh Panayiotou link on cellphone, writes Kathryn Kimberley THE cellphone records of a man accused of murdering an elderly Kunene Park woman have helped police link him to the hit on schoolteacher Jayde Panayiotou – a crime which shocked the country… October 31, 2015