While we may have trailed a little behind in the #FinePeople Olympics‚ there’s just no denying that Mzansi’s got some of the most uniquely beautiful women in the world. The good news is we are finally getting international brands to understand that African beauty is diverse. Of course, we can back this up and that is why the news of Bontle Modiselle‚ Luthando Shosha aka Lootlove‚ Kim Jayde and Michelle Mosalakae joining Queen B as Revlon ambassadors is such a big deal! The ladies took to various social media platforms to share the news with pride at being a representation of Mzansi’s diverse beauty. They call themselves the #LiveBoldBrigade.  Speaking to SowetanLIVE‚ Mosalakae‚ who is an actress living with albinism said she loved being part of a campaign that was all about diversity and inclusivity. “I want young girls across the country to understand that there is so much in having self-confidence. There is nothing in this world that can stop you.” Fashion blogger‚ Jayde said she was excited to be part of a first in Africa campaign. “Four completely different and unique women showing little girls that it’s more than okay to be different – it should be celebrated!”  via GIPHY Zandile Mbabela SHE has been the official new Live presenter for only a few days, but already Port Elizabeth starlet Luthando Shosha is looking forward to newer and bigger projects that her new job will open up for her. Shosha, affectionately known as LootLove, was announced as the new presenter… May 22, 2012 Yoliswa Sobuwa FOUR Eastern Cape artists, including two from Nelson Mandela Bay, have a chance to shine in true Hollywood style at this year's YOU Spectacular awards. Grahamstown-born Metro FM DJ Unathi Msengana and Mthatha- born Anele Mdoda of Highveld 94.7 have been nominated in the favourite radio personality category.… June 26, 2013 Bonang Matheba is ready to take on the world - the 28-year old has been appointed a global ambassador for cosmetics house Revlon. Joining stars such as Halle Berry and Emma Watson, Matheba will appear on international campaigns for the beauty brand, becoming the first South African to do so.… March 18, 2016