Controversial film Inxeba (The Wound) just can’t stop raking in the prizes. The film’s creators will need to build a bigger trophy shelf after it won its 20th award on Thursday night at the Saftas being held at Sun City. The movie‚ which tells the love story of a gay factory worker who supervises a Xhosa initiation ceremony‚ won an award for best editing at the technical awards‚ with the big events ceremony set to be held over the weekend. The film is tipped to dominate at the awards and is nominated in eight categories‚ including best film and best actor. The film’s director, John Trengove, was over the moon with the nominations‚ especially after protests rocked its opening weekend and a Film and Publications Appeals Tribunal ruling prevented it from being screened in cinemas – which was later overturned. “We are overwhelmed and incredibly honoured by the positive response from the judges‚” he said. Other big winners were SABC 1 drama series Tjovitjo‚ which walked away with four awards‚ and Kalushi, which took home three awards. The main ceremony will be held today and broadcast on SABC2 at 8pm. Complaints laid with rights bodies in bid to ensure East Cape screenings The producers, director and writers of acclaimed but controversial film Inxeba defended it at the weekend and laid formal complaints with human rights bodies in a bid to screen the film in the Eastern Cape after its premiere… February 5, 2018 The producers of controversial movie Inxeba breathed a sigh of relief yesterday as Walmer Park Shopping Centre’s NuMetro cinema started screening the film in Port Elizabeth. This comes after the producers laid formal complaints with human rights bodies at the weekend to enable screening of the film in the Eastern… February 6, 2018 Fans of Inxeba (The Wound) will now be able to watch the film in cinemas after an appeal on the reclassification of the film to X18 was taken to court. Producers of the film and the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa agreed that the X can be taken… March 6, 2018