A Port Elizabeth police detective was hospitalised after a suspected drunken Fidelity Security guard crashed head-on into a police vehicle in Motherwell on Monday morning. While the officer waited for medical assistance, his work laptop was also stolen out of the vehicle. The collision took place near the R335 and Ngedle Street intersection at about 5.45am. Motherwell police station detective Captain Deon Gerber, 58, was en route to work while the 49-year-old security guard was on his way to fetch a colleague. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said a third vehicle  – a VW Golf – was also involved in the accident. “It is alleged that the unmarked security vehicle was travelling towards the N2 on the R335 while the police vehicle was travelling in the Addo direction. “The security guard allegedly overtook a VW Golf and in doing so, collided head-on with the police vehicle,” he added. “The breathalyzer reading of the driver of the security vehicle showed  he was at least three times over the legal alcohol limit. The security guard was arrested and taken to hospital to have his blood drawn.” The police and security vehicles were both impounded for investigation. By 11am, police had arrested two men who were attempting to sell Gerber’s work laptop to a second–hand dealership in Commercial Road, Sidwell. Asked about Gerber’s condition, Beetge said he had been transferred to the high–care unit at Mercantile Hospital in preparation for an operation to stop the internal bleeding. Two men have been arrested for dealing dagga following a high speed chase with police that ended in a crash. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said police at a roadblock along the N2 near Kinkelbos police station tried to pull the suspects’ car over for a routine check. “The driver… January 31, 2018 More than two dozen suspected thugs – some on the Bay’s most wanted list – were arrested in a series of operations over two days. This was revealed yesterday following the operations in which 25 suspects were arrested. More than 50 detectives from various police stations in the Motherwell cluster were… January 11, 2017 FOUR suspected robbers were wounded in a dramatic car chase and shoot-out with police only moments after Transform Electrical Wholesaler in Paterson Road, North End, was robbed yesterday afternoon. Within minutes of the robbery, the police helicopter was activated and hovered overhead, assisting with the apprehension of four suspects. A… February 1, 2016