Two guns used to kill two Eastern Cape police officers whose bodies were found near Nyanga High School had been stolen from police members in Butterworth and Cala. And after the two officers were shot dead, the gunmen took their police vehicle and drove about 6km to the Ngcobo police station where they shot dead three more policemen. This was revealed by accused number two, Kwanele Ndlwana‚ 22‚ during the bail hearing of four of the six suspects arrested in connection with the recent massacre of five Ngcobo police members and an off-duty soldier. Ndlwana and his five co-accused – Andani Monco‚ Siphosomzi Tshefu‚ Siphesihle Tatsi‚ Phumzile Mhlatywa and Phuthumile Mancoba – appeared in court yesterday morning for a bail hearing. However‚ Monco insisted he did not want bail while Mancoba’s Legal Aid representative told the court he was tied up in the regional court and asked for his client’s hearing to be moved to March 19. Ndlwana was the first to take the stand to be cross-examined by senior state prosecutor Nomapha Mvandaba. He explained that the guns used to shoot the first two officers had been taken in Cala and Butterworth from police officers. And after the two police members were killed‚ another gun was taken from them. The case was postponed to March 19 for further evidence on a formal bail hearing. – DispatchLIVE Four cult members held for slaying of KwaZulu-Natal church leader and wife One more of the “Seven Angels” has appeared in court following the recent attack on the Ngcobo police station. Banele Mancoba, 30, the second leading member of the Seven Angels Ministries church to come to court, appeared before… March 6, 2018 The slaughter of five police officers and a retired soldier in Ngcobo yesterday morning was the second attack on the police station in less than a year. Police believe the gang that carried out yesterday’s deadly attack could be the same one that struck in March last year. But unlike… February 22, 2018 In his first public address as police minister, Bheki Cele told the families of five slain Ngcobo police officers and a soldier that members of the police force would be provided with “the tools of the trade” to take on violent criminals. He told an emotional funeral service, which bristled… February 28, 2018