A cultural group has set its sights on building a massive 50-metre statue of Jesus Christ at a historical Grahamstown site which would emulate Rio de Janeiro ’s iconic Christ the Redeemer. The ambitious project – spearheaded by the King Lobengula Foundation – would see the monument being built on Mvwhere, its proposers claim, it would be visible from both Port Elizabeth and East London. Foundation chairman Sizwe Mda said the initiative – at an estimated cost of R100-million – would represent a massive boost for tourism in Grahamstown’s cultural rich and venerable Fingo Village. Mount Zion, situated about 1.5km from the Grahamstown city centre and 600m from the Lobengula family graves in Fingo Village, is a symbol of spiritual reverence for locals. Mda, the great-grandson of Lobengula Khumalo, who was the second and last king of the Northern Ndebele people in Zimbabwe, said he was on a mission to revive the king’s life story. The connection between Lobengula and Fingo Village dates back to 1893 when the Matabeleland war broke out and colonist Cecil John Rhodes took the children of King Lobengula and separated them from their tribesmen. The children were eventually buried in Fingo Village. The statue’s design will reflect the African spirit and will be designed by architect Hendri Frankenfeld, who drew up the plans for the Rosehill Mall in Port Alfred. “The statue will stand on Mount Zion, formerly known as Makana’s Kop. It will enhance creativity,” Mda said. The proposed site is an area where residents have gone to pray for years, mainly for rain. The idea also has the support of Mantis Group Holdings chairman Adrian Gardiner and the Makana Municipality. Frankenfeld said the concept behind the project was to create a spiritual marketable piece within the Christian fraternity. “We are looking at the sketches. The concept here is to create a world heritage site similar to the one in Rio de Janeiro for tourists as well as the spiritual market,” he said. Gardiner described the idea as an “intelligent project”. “I know Mda and, just like him, I also have my roots in Zimbabwe. This will be an interesting development for the Eastern Cape. I am from this province and I want to support the initiative,” he said. Gardiner said the site where the statue would be built would be developed and he would look at starting a hospitality business – a key factor for attracting tourists. Makana Municipality spokeswoman Yoliswa Ramokolo said due to budgetary constraints they could not help financially. “We will, however, support in any other way possible such as marketing the event through tourism and using mediums such as the municipal website,” she said. Meanwhile, dozens of Christians are preparing for a pilgrimage to Mount Zion on Good Friday. The aim of the pilgrimage is to bless the mountain in preparation for the building of the Jesus monument. The 30-metre Christ the Redeemer statue in Rio de Janeiro was created by French sculptor Paul Landowski, but built by Brazilian engineer Heitor da Silva Costa, in collaboration with the French engineer Albert Caquot. Grahamstown reputation as the City of Saints could become a thing of the past thanks to an ambitious plan to build a massive statue on a township hillside. The African-influenced statue, the design of which would be inspired by Brazil’s iconic Christ the Redeemer, would be made from kaolin mined… November 19, 2016 E-mail your letter to The Herald A BIRD's eye view of the past life of a lost heir and a royal history long forgotten was the experience of guests who gathered in Grahamstown's Fingo Village on July 1 to witness the launch of the King Lobengula Route Tour. The descendants… July 11, 2013 THE National Arts Festival gives The Herald and Weekend Post readers tips on how to stretch your budget at the  #NAF16, running from June 30 to July 10 in Grahamstown. "My budget is pretty tight. How can I make the most of the Festival?" Concessions: Discounted tickets are… June 16, 2016