Former President Jacob Zuma’s ex-financial adviser Schabir Shaik has confirmed that he has been approached by the Hawks and asked to testify in Zuma’s trial. His lawyer has also stated that Shaik believes “the law will take its rightful course” in the matter between the NPA and Zuma”. The comments came hours after Shaun Abrahams‚ the national director at the National Prosecuting Authority‚ announced that Zuma’s latest bid to stop his corruption prosecution had failed. Shaik said he had “no comment” on Abrahams’ announcement‚ because his is on medical parole and is limited in what he can say to the media. Shaik was convicted of corrupting Zuma in 2005‚ and sentenced to 15 years in prison. He was released on medical parole on March 3‚ 2009 after serving just over two years of that sentence. A panel of medical experts had concluded that he was terminally ill. During his trial‚ Shaik remained adamant that the hundreds of payments he made to Zuma‚ then KwaZulu-Natal Tourism MEC and later deputy president‚ were either gifts or part of a revolving loan agreement. But the high court rejected that explanation and found that the payments were clearly intended to keep Zuma on a corrupt retainer – so that he could be used‚ in his official capacity‚ to further Shaik’s business interests. – TimesLIVE What could former financial advisor Schabir Shaik reveal about his relationship with Jacob Zuma if he turned state witness in a corruption trial against the president? That‚ for a start‚ he ran almost every aspect of Zuma’s financial affairs for almost a decade – paying hospital bills‚ debts‚ rent‚ vehicles‚… October 17, 2017 Schabir Shaik is not being hauled back to jail. Instead the convicted fraudster is "very busy" at his Morningside home in Durban. On Monday as hundreds of Twitter and Facebook users shared a hoax tweet claiming that he was going to be rearrested‚ the terminally ill parolee's schedule was full.… February 19, 2018 Schabir Shaik is accused of threatening to headbutt and kick a journalist in the genitals after he was queried about a report that his health has improved so much so he was considering going back into business. Shaik‚ who was granted parole on medical grounds in 2009 after his doctors… June 10, 2015