Pupils described a Port Elizabeth school secretary who was gunned down at her home on Sunday as a mother figure at a silent protest against crime yesterday. Nosipho Mabusela, 53, and her husband, Vukile, 59, were attacked by three men on Sunday night and Nosipho was shot dead. Her murder prompted an anti-crime silent protest by the school’s pupils which was also to honour Mabusela’s life. Mabusela was the secretary for the Lungisa High School in KwaDwesi. Pupil Siphosethu Somdlaka, 20, said the entire school was devastated by the attack. “We are very hurt by what happened to Mrs Mabusela. To us she was more than a secretary, she was also our mother,” Somdlaka said. She said Mabusela had had a happy soul and had always encouraged discipline and focus among the pupils.  “Mrs Mabusela was everything to us. “She was an easy person to talk to and in her memory, we promise to study hard and pass, as she would have loved that.” Somdlaka said Mabusela deserved justice. “We want justice for her . . . she didn’t deserve what happened to her.” Former pupil Aviwe Fezi, 21, said Mabusela had always been helpful. “When I heard what happened to her I was shocked. “I had to come and support the silent protest because of the wonderful person she was,” Fezi said. Lungisa High teacher Ntomboxolo Jikolo said everyone at the school was still disturbed by the attack. “We have been having sleepless nights ever since her death,” Jikolo said. A memorial service was also held to honour Mabusela’s 22 years at the school. Her funeral will take place on Wednesday at the Motherwell 4B community centre. Meanwhile, police have arrested two men in connection with Mabusela’s murder. They appeared in the Motherwell Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. The case was postponed to next week for a bail application.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Beloved Lungisa High staff member shot twice in head while cowering with husband under duvet Cowering beneath the bed covers, a much-loved school secretary was gunned down by intruders in front of her terrified husband – who did not realise until 10 minutes later that his wife had been fatally… March 16, 2018 Prefects ordered to take her off the premises A PORT Elizabeth high school pupil, who was dragged out of school because her skirt was too short, has spoken about the humiliation she felt following the heavy-handed approach taken by a teacher and prefects. The Grade 11 Lawson Brown High School… October 29, 2015 Father fighting for his life in hospital after trying to ward off killers of Strelitzia pupil A PROMISING young schoolgirl, murdered in cold blood in her home, is the latest victim in suspected witness killings linked to ongoing gang violence in Port Elizabeth’s troubled northern areas. Twelve-year-old Aliya “Angel” Tee,… June 9, 2016