Tiger Brands faces about R425m in legal claims for more than 180 listeriosis deaths blamed on processed meat from its subsidiary‚ Enterprise Foods‚ it said in a statement on Monday morning. The cost of suspending operations and destroying suspect food would be between R337m and R377m‚ of which Tiger Brands hopes to recoup R94m from insurers‚ the statement said. In addition to the halting food production at its Polokwane and Germiston factories announced on March 5‚ Tiger Brands said it now intended closing its Clayville abattoir by the end of March‚ and had also suspended operations at the Pretoria facility that manufactures its Snax brand. In its statement‚ Tiger Brand conceded that it had independently verified the Department of Health’s finding that there was listeria monocytogenes ST6 type (LST6) in its Polokwane factory. But the group refused to admit guilt for SA’s listeria tragedy. “Whether this presence of LST6 can be said to have caused any illness or death remains unclear at present and testing in that regard is an ongoing process likely to take time‚” Tiger Brands said. – BusinessLIVE Tiger Brands said on Friday it was doing everything possible to get to the root cause of the listeria bacterium at its Enterprise Foods’ Limpopo facility. “We acknowledge and recognise that we are dealing with a national crisis which has impacted customers‚ consumers and the industry. Tiger Brands wants to… March 9, 2018 Enterprise Foods has withdrawn all ready-to-eat meat products and has halted production at the two factories manufacturing these products‚ its parent company‚ Tiger Brands‚ said on Monday. Lawrence MacDougall‚ CEO of Tiger Brands‚ however‚ said there has been no direct correlation between their products and the 180 deaths caused by… March 5, 2018 Woman tells of her battle to beat deadly listeriosis After eating a single piece of polony between two slices of white bread Rina Adriaanse almost died, but it was only when she woke up in a hospital that the seriousness of listeriosis hit home. Adriaanse, 53, who lives in Windvogel… March 10, 2018