President Cyril Ramaphosa said on Friday that he was “appalled and saddened” by the death of a five-year-old who fell into a pit toilet at the Luna Primary School in Bizana‚ Eastern Cape. Lumka Mkhethwa’s body was found on Tuesday inside the latrine a day after an extensive search by residents and police with sniffer dogs. The presidency said that Ramaphosa had directed Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga to “conduct an audit of all learning facilities with unsafe structures‚ especially unsafe ablution facilities‚ within a month and to present him with a plan to rectify the challenges‚ as an emergency interim measure while rolling out proper infrastructure‚ within three months”. In his state of the nation address in February‚ Ramaphosa made a commitment to eliminate unsafe ablution facilities and said the process would involve consultation with civil society. He described Lumka’s death as devastating for her family and the country. “The nation still mourns the loss of young Michael Komape under similar tragic circumstances in 2014.” – TimesLIVE Child’s death in latrine ‘unacceptable’  It was completely unacceptable that a five-year-old child had drowned in a school pit latrine in the Eastern Cape, Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said yesterday. Viwe Jali, a pupil at Luna Primary School in Mbizana‚ Transkei‚ fell into a pit latrine and died on Tuesday. “The death of a… March 16, 2018 Walmer Township and Missionvale may be kilometres apart, but the Nelson Mandela Bay residents living there share a common reality – the continued use of bucket toilets. Last week, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality extended its deadline to eradicate the bucket system in the city by six months – leaving mayor… November 29, 2017 And so, finally, Cyril Ramaphosa’s campaign for the ANC presidency is in full swing. In recent weeks, Ramaphosa has moved from one podium to the next, across the country, presenting himself as an alternative presidential candidate ready to take the ANC out of its leadership crisis. Indeed Ramaphosa joined the… May 24, 2017