 EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu was caught on camera assaulting a journalist on Tuesday. The incident took place at Parliament as Adrian de Kock‚ from Media 24‚ was waiting with other journalists outside the building where Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille’s disciplinary hearing is taking place. De Kock saw Shivambu‚ asked if wanted to comment about the hearing and took pictures of the politician. Shivambu then insisted that De Kock delete the images because he had not given consent for them to be taken. He held De Kock by the neck and tried to grab the camera‚ and two unknown men also approached the journalist. “Leave my stuff alone. Leave my stuff alone‚” the journalist is heard screaming as he was being manhandled. Shivambu then walked away while one of the men continued to attack De Kock. “Floyd grabbed my throat saying‚ ‘You don’t have permission’‚” said the visibly shaken journalist. He later told TimesLIVE he would lay assault charges with police. Andisiwe Makinana‚ chairman of the parliamentary press gallery‚ said: “We are gathering information about the incident and we will write the Speaker and the EFF.” Malema seethes at being told to behave A stern warning by Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande to the EFF sparked a fracas in the National Assembly last night as the debate on the state of the nation address drew to a close. As the final speaker in the debate on… February 19, 2015 Three decades after Eugene de Kock and his men abducted and brutally murdered security guard Japie Maponya, the apartheid death squad commander is helping the National Prosecuting Authority’s missing persons task team find his remains. He was abducted from Krugersdorp on the West Rand, where he was a security guard,… February 10, 2015 IT is "unacceptable" for anyone speaking on behalf of the ANC to swear to get their point across, ANC chairwoman Baleka Mbete said today (July 12). She was responding to questions about ANC Youth League spokesman Floyd Shivambu who reportedly said "f**k you" to a journalist who called him about… July 12, 2011