Major taxi routes around Mthatha will be closed  indefinitely following the ongoing conflicts which has resulted in the killing of more than 60 people since it started in 2016. This was announced by Police Minister Bheki Cele on Tuesday (27/03/2018). Some of the affected routes include the R61 and the N2 junction to Maclear and Tsolo respectively. Cele said several interventions including the signing of a peace accord by provincial government to bring peace to rival associations have been futile. “The selfishness of the taxi industry must be cut to zero; we cannot continue to count dead bodies like a taxi load.  60 people is a big number, the killings must be eradicated or else taxi operators will lose their business. The routes belong to the citizens of this country and not to be manipulated by taxi bosses for selfish financial gains.” Cele said unless there is absolute compliance to the peace accord, the routes will be closed indefinitely. “After the signing of the ceasefire agreement, 13 people have been killed and 17 cases of attempted murder have been registered. W are not a banana republic therefore business cannot continue as usual. In fact the taxi business can rather go down to its knees instead of masquerading as a funeral parlour,” he said. The Minister together with the provincial leadership in the Eastern Cape led by the MEC for Transport, Safety and Liaison, Weziwe Tikana and SAPS Provincial Commissioner Lieutenant-General  Liziwe Ntshinga had a lengthy meeting with the top executive of the two rival taxi operators of Uncedo Services Taxi Association and Border Alliance Taxi Association.  None of the associations took responsibility for the killings. Cele said the police investigations are at an advanced stage to apprehend the masterminds in the taxi wars.  To date, 48 people have already been arrested. Feuding taxi associations operating in and around Mthatha in the Eastern Cape have committed to stop the taxi violence and instead be advocates for peace and stability. Speaking at a prayer service held at the Mthatha Town Hall to call for an end to the ongoing taxi violence‚ leaders of… July 26, 2016 School exams in the Eastern Cape have been suspended for Friday in light of the protest action by taxi operators in the province‚ acting education superintendent-general Sizakele Netshilaphala. Speaking on behalf of Netshilaphala‚ spokesman Loyiso Pulumani said this was a timely advisory “to all school principals to reschedule all planned… June 10, 2016 Disgruntled operators plead for protection against gangsters A group of disgruntled taxi operators shut down a number of northern areas taxi routes yesterday in protest against what they said was a lack of assistance from police when it came to crime and dealing with gangsters demanding protection money. Hundreds of commuters… November 10, 2016