Vladislav Heric’s arrival has sparked excitement in the Chippa United camp ahead of their Nedbank Cup fixture against Free State Stars at Goble Park tomorrow (3pm), midfield general Mark Mayambela said. Heric took over this week from Teboho Moloi, who was shown the door by club boss Siviwe Mpengesi after failing to produce results. The former Bay United coach is seen as the one who can get the Chilli Boys back to their winning ways and perhaps gain the team their first silverware since joining the Premier Soccer League, by winning the Nedbank Cup. Chippa had a good run in the competition last season, losing in the semifinals to SuperSport United on penalties. Mayambela believes the Serb has come to the Port Elizabeth club at the right time, when the team is in need of points. Speaking ahead of their crucial Nedbank fixture against Ea Lla Koto, the “Professor” said each game came with pressure – and this one would be no different. “Of course it’s our wish to win, and this one is no exception. “We have lost to Pirates and Cape Town City in the league, and now with the Nedbank Cup we are going all out to get back to our winning ways. “We have a new coach now and of course he has his own philosophy and way of doing things. “I see excitement from the players – they are doing well to impress the new coach. “Maybe it is something that we needed, but it’s a game we want to win and bring back our winning formula. “It’s a game that will also prepare us well for the season,” Mayambela said. The former Orlando Pirates player said there was nothing much the coach could do in terms of prepping the team for the Stars game in the little time that he was given, considering that he took office only on Monday. However, he said from what the team had, Heric had tried to implement a few technical details. “He hasn’t done much since he came, but as time goes he will start to introduce his way of doing things. “Everybody is excited in the team and all the players are happy to have him here. “I think he will bring results.” Despite their poor run in the league, having won only one match this year out of the eight played so far, Mayambela said the team’s confidence levels were still high. But Polokwane City ready to claim revenge for Cup loss Chippa United will be out to double their winnings against Polokwane City when the two sides meet in a Premier Soccer League fixture at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tonight (7.30pm). The Port Elizabeth soccer team’s charges hope to repeat… April 11, 2017 Sikhakhane seeking first win of new season CHIPPA United will charge head-on into their Absa Premiership clash against Soweto giants Orlando Pirates tonight (7.30pm), determined to notch their first victory of the season. The intimidating Orlando Stadium sets the scene for a fixture the Chilli Boys are confident of winning… August 18, 2015 Mpengesi says ‘big games’ to stay in PE, but row with East London goes on TEAM owner Siviwe Mpengesi ended weeks of speculation yesterday when he confirmed the PSL fixture between Chippa United and Orlando Pirates on May 11 would now be played at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium. The fixture… March 3, 2016