A witness in the trial of two men accused of killing northern areas crime fighter Naeem Desai had the gallery in the Port Elizabeth High Court laughing when she started questioning the prosecutor. Defence witness Mara Jenneker, 59, of Helenvale, even asked judge Dayalin Chetty if she could stop answering the questions and leave. “Just answer the questions,” Chetty told her. Jenneker was testifying on behalf of Eston “Gans” Afrikaner, 19, who along with Deswin “Boetie Baas” Kleinbooi, 22, are accused of the 2016 murder of Desai, 47. Both have pleaded not guilty. During his testimony, Afrikaner claimed he had spent the night of May 11 2016 at Jenneker’s Ibex Street, Helenvale, home. Desai was shot dead in the early hours of the following morning while delivering bread to a nearby spaza shop. Jenneker told the court Afrikaner had asked her if he could spend the night at her place after smoking a hookah pipe with her grandson, Vandre Windvogel. State prosecutor Garth Baartman told Jenneker she was lying to protect Afrikaner, adding he found it strange that she could remember such details from two years ago. Shortly before the 11am tea break, Jenneker told the court her head hurt and she started shifting around on the stand. She also denied Kleinbooi and Afrikaner were friends, but admitted to knowing both men well. “Boetie Baas grew up in front of me [but] they did not know each other. “They never walked together or played together,” she said. Jenneker said on the morning of the murder Afrikaner had been asleep in her house when her daughter knocked on her door to tell her about Desai’s murder. “I can’t say if Gans shot and killed [Desai] because Gans was in my house,” she said. A clearly annoyed Jenneker asked Baartman why he was questioning her about what Afrikaner had been wearing on the morning of the shooting. “Why must I look what he is wearing. He is not my child or my boyfriend,” she said. When asked why Afrikaner would sleep at her house when his home was a street away, Jenneker said it was a dangerous area where there was a lot of crime and shootings. “Even now there is bang, bang, shooting – it’s dangerous.” The case was postponed to Monday for heads of arguments. The testimony of a witness to the murder of Naeem Desai was brought into question yesterday when the defence claimed that allegations made in a police statement differed significantly from what was said in court. During intense cross-examination, Ferdinand Valentine, 28, told the Port Elizabeth High Court that it was… February 27, 2018 It will be full steam ahead for prosecutors today when the trial of two men accused of killing “the Rambo of Port Elizabeth” starts. The prosecution yesterday asked the Port Elizabeth High Court for a day’s postponement so they could amend their submissions to the court. Before the postponement was… February 20, 2018 A single shot to the head was all it took to kill Port Elizabeth crime fighter Naeem Desai. It happened after a plan to rob the bread delivery van the businessman was driving. Testifying in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court yesterday, forensic pathologist Dr Prudent Mgobo said the gunshot entered… February 22, 2018