The bubble-bursting victory over the Dragons will bring players out of their shells and allow them to express their talent better, Southern Kings skipper Michael Willemse said. After a 16-game PRO14 losing run, the Kings finally got on the winning track when they thrashed the Dragons 45-13 at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. The Kings outscored the Welsh outfit by six tries to one to end their PRO14 drought in style after enjoying a slender 14-13 lead at the break. Livewire centre Luzuko Vulindlu crossed for two tries and Masixole Banda, Ruaan Lerm, Anthonie Volmink and Bobby de Wee also joined the try feast. “A first win will help us going forward and the guys will come out of their shells and express themselves more,” Willemse said. “This team want to play with passion and show our talents. We want to enjoy ourselves on the field. Lots of the guys have come to Port Elizabeth after showing their talent around the country. “A massive talking point for us ahead of the Dragons game was our belief in one another. I said to the boys before the game that we should prove something to ourselves, rather than to anyone else. “We wanted to prove our worth and we did that. “After the first half, when we got into the shed, we thought we had lost a couple of good opportunities. However, we felt we had good momentum. “You could see the boys enjoyed themselves against the Dragons and that was a first this season. “Everyone can see what we are capable of doing once we start enjoying ourselves a bit. Hopefully we see a bit more of that.” Willemse said the team had grown as a unit over the past 17 games after they were hastily assembled last year. “During this tournament, we have learnt a hell of a lot in terms of the manner in which we have trained on tour. “The way we trained on the first tour to Europe was completely different. “I think we have adapted well in terms of that. Going forward those little changes are going to help. “Against the Ospreys, we thought we had made massive strides forward. Then against Leinster, their tempo and physicality really caught us off guard. “We decided before the Dragons game it was more about a mental than a physical battle for us. But it does not stop here. We need to carry on for the last four games of the season.” The Kings’ remaining games are against Benetton Treviso (March 24), Munster (April 7), Cardiff Blues (April 14) and the Cheetahs (April 27). Though the form book strongly suggests otherwise, Southern Kings skipper Michael Willemse says his team have enough ammunition to topple the Cheetahs today. If a hotly contested “Battle of Bloem” is to materialise, the winless Kings will have to make a big step up after a 12th consecutive PRO14 loss… January 20, 2018 Gracious Southern Kings skipper Michael Willemse has saluted the Cheetahs for keeping South Africa’s flag flying high in the PRO14. His sentiments have also been shared by Kings head coach Deon Davids who said the Cheetahs must be applauded for their efforts. Both teams were included in the PRO14 at… January 24, 2018 Hooker Michael Willemse, who has been reinstated to the Southern Kings captaincy hot-seat, is breathing fire ahead of tomorrow’s PRO14 clash against the Cheetahs in Bloemfontein. Last week, the struggling Kings slumped to their 12th consecutive defeat in a first-leg derby clash against the Cheetahs in Port Elizabeth. Now Willemse’s… January 19, 2018