From June 2 to 9 Sibuya Game Reserve is offering a Winter Yoga Retreat including a comprehensive introduction to the philosophy and practise of yoga. At this retreat you will relax, rejuvenate and revive. You will have an opportunity to engage in learning sessions and discussions, practice and self-reflection all the while enjoying the pristine Eastern Cape bush and beaches from the luxury and tranquility of the reserve. The Sibuya team are also ready to treat participants to game drives, bush and beach walks, river cruises, birding and kayaking. The retreat programme is designed so that it is suitable for novices and seasoned practitioners – there are optional daily group interactions as well as time and space to spend on your own practice in this wonderfully peaceful environment with the benefit of support and coaching should you require it. Meals will be simple, light and nutritious dishes that you can easily replicate at home for your ongoing mindful-eating and nourishment practice. The retreat menu is designed to cleanse, nourish and rejuvenate you. Recipes will be made available as a part of the package. The price includes seven nights of accommodation with all meals and soft drinks – nutritionally-balanced, delicious, lacto-ovo-vegetarian and pescatarian-based menu. The price excludes massages done by Sibuya masseuses, alcoholic beverages and tips.
Sibuya is 120km from Port Elizabeth, 150km from East London and 25km from Port Alfred. For more information visit sibuya.co.za TWO white rhinos were found dead yesterday and a third is fighting for his life after being darted and dehorned by poachers in a game reserve near Kenton-on-Sea. Anti-poaching teams and staff at Sibuya Game Reserve were on high alert following the attack in which two females were slaughtered, leaving… March 25, 2016 Bingo, one of three rhino found at the Sibuya Game Reserve earlier this week after they had been attacked by poachers, has died. The Sibuya Rhino Foundation confirmed on its Facebook page yesterday that "the terrible devastating decision was taken to put him to sleep and save him further agony,… March 27, 2016 THE traumatised rhino calves left orphaned after their mothers were gruesomely poached at Sibuya Game Reserve last week are giving their carers something to smile about as they settle in at a rehabilitation centre. But their badly injured father, Bingo, lost his battle for survival on Saturday, three days after… March 29, 2016