Renowned British physicist Stephen Hawking, whose mental genius and physical disability made him a household name and inspiration across the globe, has died at age 76, a family spokesman said Wednesday. “We are deeply saddened that our beloved father passed away today,” professor Hawking’s children, Lucy, Robert, and Tim said in a statement carried by Britain’s Press Association news agency. “He was a great scientist and an extraordinary man whose work and legacy will live on for many years.” “His courage and persistence with his brilliance and humour inspired people across the world,” the family said. “He once said, ‘It would not be much of a universe if it wasn’t home to the people you love.’ We will miss him forever.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  MY BRIEF HISTORY by Stephen Hawking. Published by Transworld Publishers. HIS autobiography is exactly what the title states – brief! With only 126 pages, including illustrations and photos, it gives a fascinating insight into the life and work of Stephen Hawking, Lucasian professor of maths at Cambridge for the past… October 6, 2014 Featuring scantily clad dancers, a dead parrot and astrophysicist Stephen Hawking, cult British comedy troupe Monty Python promised Monday that their long-awaited reunion shows in London would be spectacular - and of course, very silly. The five surviving members of the group - John Cleese, Michael Palin, Terry Gilliam, Eric… June 30, 2014 THE article, “Hawking launches R1.2bn bid to find extraterrestrial life” (July 21), refers. It is surprising, after transmitting radio waves for nearly a century, some dedicated to deep space, and receiving no response, that Stephen Hawking has lent his mighty brain to a new initiative! What is new about this… July 28, 2015