Parliament also to compel Zuma’s son to appear at state capture inquiry Summonses are to be issued by parliament for former South African Airways (SAA) chairwoman Dudu Myeni‚ former president Jacob Zuma’s son, Duduzane, and three Gupta brothers to appear before the state capture inquiry being conducted by the portfolio committee on public enterprises. The decision to issue summonses was taken by the committee at a closed meeting yesterday following the repeated failure of these individuals to appear before the inquiry on the basis of invitations. A statement issued by the committee noted with “deep concern the threats received by [a] phone call on the weekend by the chairperson of the inquiry‚ Ms Zukiswa Rantho”. “The committee agreed that the matter must be reported to law enforcement agencies so a security threat analysis can be done and proper action can be taken. “The committee also believes the matter should be reported to the speaker of parliament.” The committee decided to accept affidavits from individuals who wished to make submissions to the inquiry until April 13. The committee is planning to finalise its first report in May, with the final draft being tabled in parliament in mid-June. Myeni has‚ so far‚ failed to submit a medical certificate to support her claim that she cannot appear before the committee as she is “not in fit and full capacity”. She gave a written submission that she thought would be sufficient but this was rejected by the committee‚ which wants to interrogate her on allegations that she played a role in the suspension of three Eskom executives in March 2015‚ including former chief executive Tshediso Matona. This intervention‚ according to the testimony of former Eskom chair Zola Tsotsi‚ took place at the Durban residence of Jacob Zuma. In a letter to Rantho earlier this month‚ Myeni accused the committee of a lack of sympathy and support and insensitivity to her rights as a citizen “in terms of being afforded an opportunity to recover in dignity”. It seemed‚ she said‚ that she was being stripped of her rights. Last month, Rantho said the public enterprises committee was battling to locate the Guptas and their lawyers to serve them with notice to appear before it. She said they had tried to contact the lawyers that last wrote to the committee on behalf of the family‚ but the legal firm had said the Guptas were no longer their clients. The Guptas had been expected to appear before the Eskom inquiry on March 13‚ but the committee did not get a response. Rantho said last month: “It’s still a problem‚ the issue of the Guptas‚ because we don’t know where they are‚ but we’re going to look for them because we only know of one [Gupta brother] who’s outside the country.” Meanwhile, the Gupta brothers missed their deadline on Monday to present themselves to Indian tax authorities. India journalist Neha Poonia tweeted: “Sources in income tax department tell me [the] Gupta brothers missed their summons today. “Sources say [the] chartered accountant of Guptas made a representation on their behalf‚ sought more time. “One week’s extension [was] granted. [The] next date of summons is April 2.” The Times of India also reported that the Gupta brothers did not report to the Dehradun office on Monday. Atul‚ Ajay and Rajesh initially had to appear on March 16‚ but the tax authorities granted them a 10-day extension. The brothers could reportedly be charged with money laundering and fraudulently amassing properties. Amrendra Kumar‚ a senior income tax official in India’s Uttar Pradesh state‚ previously told Reuters the Gupta brothers were suspected of finding ways to bring illicit money into India. – BusinessLIVE, TimesLIVE Former South African Airways board chairpwoman Dudu Myeni will face a summons if she once again fails to appear before the parliamentary inquiry into state capture next week. Myeni is to be subpoenaed to appear before the inquiry into the alleged capture of Eskom by the Guptas after she snubbed… February 28, 2018 The Gupta brothers and former SAA chairwoman Dudu Myeni have been accused of showing an unacceptable disregard for parliament for not putting in an appearance at the state capture inquiry. The portfolio committee on public enterprises tasked with the inquiry into the mismanagement of state funds in state-owned enterprises said… March 13, 2018 Former SAA chairwoman Dudu Myeni has yet again failed to make an appearance before the parliamentary inquiry into state capture‚ but in a written submission has denied the testimony of former Eskom chairman Zola Tsotsi that she told him that three senior Eskom executives should be suspended. According to Tsotsi's… March 7, 2018