   I have been using DIY hair gel for a while now and I am OBSESSED. I had seen a bunch of curly girls rave about DIY hair gel on social media, but quite frankly I thought they were taking this natural movement to the extreme, because who has the time and energy to make their own DIY hair gel, conditioner, masks and whatever? (Go suffer buyer’s remorse at Clicks and Dischem like the rest of us!) I wondered who these people were? But now, I am these people – since I discovered the benefits of flaxseed gel on your hair and also how cheap the seeds are and easy the gel is to make. It is also ideal for styling your child’s hair as you know exactly what has gone in to making it. Let me start by saying that this is the most basic of basic recipes. Also, because I can’t be bothered to cook food, let alone hair products, this recipe is made in the microwave and not on the stove top like most other recipes. You will need two cups of water and a third of a cup of flaxseeds (linseeds). I hate the taste of it by the way but love it on my hair. You put it all in a microwave-safe bowl and boil for three minutes. Take it out to stir, put it back in for two minutes, then take out to stir and put it in for a final two minutes. You should have swollen seeds floating in a slimy concoction (yum). Now take the mixture and strain it through an old (but clean) pair of pantyhose. Squeeze out as much as you can while the mixture is hot. At this point, you can mix in a variety of things… Aloe vera gel, essential oils, oils like coconut or grape seed, shea butter or honey. All these products add extra benefits to your gel. I really just like the plain old gel though, it leaves my hair so soft and moisturised and since it dries so quickly and doesn’t cause build-up, I can use it in the morning to refresh our curls (my son and I).
The mixture stays fresh for up to two weeks in the fridge. If you are not too keen on its slight “bready” smell, just add your favourite essential oil. You can also re-use the seeds. The gel has been such a hit that both my son and husband use it now too and we have various degrees of curliness – which is a good sign, right? Eleanor Douglas-Meyers is a crafty mom from Uitenhage who writes about DIY, parenting, natural hair care, fashion, food and fun on her blog JustEllaBella     I feel that it’s safe to say most of us are way more organised when it comes to shopping for baby than we are… November 23, 2016 New range includes scalp spray, hair food, serum and moulding gel. Siyabonga Cembi has become synonymous with the dreadlocks community in the Eastern Cape and now has helped to develop a range of products specially for this style of hair. “I saw Vida ... is Life didn’t have hair products… January 21, 2015 HAVING commented on Natalie Dormer at the SAG awards, here are two from the Golden Globes that are relevant to matric farewells and that you could achieve at home if you want too. Well, one of them anyway . . . I loved Taylor Swift’s curly faux bob which I… February 19, 2014