Former ANC president Jacob Zuma will “campaign” for his party in his home province of KwaZulu-Natal. On Friday‚ ANC elections head Fikile Mbalula said Zuma told the party he was volunteering his assistance. The Electoral Commission is running a registration drive across the country this weekend for the 2019 general elections. Mbalula said that Zuma‚ “in his retirement … has availed himself to support and to be ready to be deployed by the ANC”. “It’s not a question that he is deployed in KZN; he resides there. So this weekend he prefers to be working in KZN‚ particularly in and around the areas of Nkandla‚ where he actually resides‚” said Mbalula. He added that in the future‚ should Zuma be available again‚ he may be “deployed” to campaign in areas such as Gauteng. Mbalula said that the ANC’s campaign “squarely falls on the leadership of the ANC currently. All others are supporting the campaign. So nobody who wants to work on the campaign will be dislodged.” President Cyril Ramaphosa will be in Gauteng this weekend to encourage voters to register. – TimesLIVE President Jacob Zuma could face a motion of no confidence from within his own party – an abrupt about-turn after the staunch support he once enjoyed. Several top ANC leaders have in the past been vocal in their support for Zuma when he faced motions of no confidence or scandals… February 6, 2018 Police minister Fikile Mbalula has said that he does not believe the ANC should pursue disciplinary charges against former president Jacob Zuma. “It would have meant the ANC would have to go for him‚” Mbalula said on Sunday in an interview with the SABC. Mbalula said the ANC NEC’s decision… February 19, 2018 Former police minister Fikile Mbalula has resigned as a member of parliament‚ the ANC said on Friday. Jackson Mthembu‚ the ANC's chief whip in Parliament‚ said the resignation was effective from February 26. Mbalula was recently ousted from the cabinet of President Cyril Ramaphosa. He has since taken up a… March 9, 2018