The Nelson Mandela University is hosting an opera concert tomorrow night that will show off two magnificent opera voices. The concert, to be held at 7pm in the in the university’s South Campus Auditorium in Summerstrand, will consist of performances by Siphokazi Molteno and Noluvuyiso Mpofu. Both of these talented women hail from the Eastern Cape. Molteno, 25, was born in Mdantsane, East London and Mpofu, 27, is from Port Elizabeth. Molteno completed her studies in Music Education at the NMU. She has participated in many big occasions such as the Youth Concerto Festival in association with the Eastern Cape Philharmonic Orchestra; the Aspen Music Festival in Colorado in the US; and she was invited to the Concert of Arias singing competition at the Houston Grand Opera in Texas. Mpofu’s love of singing was first honed while in the choir at Newell High School in New Brighton and as a member of community choir The Matthews Singers. She studied at the South African College of Music in Cape Town and in 2015 and 2016 was a member of the Cape Town Opera studio, where she had roles in numerous productions. She took part in the Rossini Opera Festival in Italy and was among the chosen candidates for the Opera awards. Tickets will be available at the venue at R150 for the general public and R75 for pensioners and students. For more information about the concert call 060-494-4170. THE NMMU music department will present its Voice Studio lunch hour concert on Wednesday in the NMMU South Campus Auditorium. The concert will feature a variety of voice students, all of whom reflect the exciting range of musical activity found within the university's music department. The voice students all hail… September 11, 2014 EASTERN Cape musicians will unite tonight (18/09/14) for a concert hosted by the Port Elizabeth Music Society in the NMMU South Campus auditorium at 7.30pm. The evening will start with the Eastern Cape Children’s Choir who will be accompanied by an ad hoc orchestra conducted by Juan Munoz of Grahamstown.… September 18, 2014 THE exciting Last Night of the Proms fundraiser concert in the Feather Market Centre was one of the most memorable for concert goers and supporters of St Francis Hospice, Nelson Mandela Bay. It celebrated youth, music and also the philanthropic spirit which clearly permeates this city of ours. There are… June 9, 2014