Runner accepts Commonwealth Games challenge of more medals for Team SA Caster Semenya has vowed to win two gold medals at the Commonwealth Games in Australia next month. Semenya made the pledge at a farewell function organised by the SA Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) on Monday night‚ where she was named flag-bearer for the opening ceremony next Wednesday. This is the third time Semenya has been called on to carry the South African flag‚ having done the duty at the closing ceremony of the 2016 Rio Olympics and the 2012 London Olympics opening ceremony. Sascoc president Gideon Sam has said he wants Team SA to return to fifth place on the Games medals table after dropping to seventh at Glasgow 2014‚ but to do that they will need an estimated 15 gold medals – and that‚ he said, would require the stars to win double golds. Accepting her role as flag-bearer‚ Semenya‚ who will compete in the 800m and 1 500m‚ said: “I’m truly honoured. We lead by example‚ two golds for me.” Semenya is the reigning Olympic and world champion in the 800m‚ but she won the bronze medal in the longer race at last year’s world championships in London. “It’s a tougher race‚ but with the work that we’ve done coming back from the world champs‚ we have learnt from that race that we ran and we have mastered the skills of running 1 500,” she said. “What I need to do now is go execute‚ secure my gold.” The double at the Gold Coast will not be as demanding as it was at the world championships with only two rounds – heats and final – in the 800m and 1 500m‚ instead of three rounds each. Semenya‚ confident of a 4min 02.50sec world lead while running on her own in Paarl last week‚ said she had been working hard for the past five months‚ bringing her weight down as well. “Middle distance is a combination of speed and endurance, you need to be light,” she said. “We are under 70kg so we are good contenders. “I eat whatever I want. It’s not about what you eat‚ it’s about hard work‚ the kilometres you run.” Semenya has won gold at the Olympics‚ world championships and the Africa Games‚ but she has never competed at a Commonwealth Games event before. “It’s my dream‚ I strive for greatness, the only thing left is Commonwealth Games‚ which I’ll try by all means to make sure I have that collection,” she said. Some top foreign athletes do not rate the Commonwealth Games as highly as other competitions‚ but Semenya believes they are still important‚ especially for inspiring youngsters. “I didn’t start yesterday. I had a dream to compete in championships because I saw my idols at those championships,” she said. Defiant South African Olympic gold medallist Caster Semenya has no time for her critics. Semenya returned to South Africa yesterday and she said she had little time for those who tried to diminish her achievements in Brazil. “A simple answer is that I have no time for those things‚” was… August 24, 2016 Records, controversy put aside as Semenya focuses on 800m final For all that the SA Olympic Committee (Sascoc) had not planned to protect Caster Semenya, they ensured she was whipped past the media after her 800m heat yesterday. Semenya ran a well-controlled race, attacking on the final bend to take the… August 18, 2016 Sporting prospects looking ever better for year ahead If success breeds success‚ then South Africa should again shoot the lights out this year to follow up on the 10 medals won at the Rio Olympics. In Brazil, Team SA picked up four medals in track and field‚ three in swimming and… January 3, 2017