Young pre-schoolers at Sinethemba Pre-School in Motherwell Nu 8 have had their hopes restored with a new building after the school was rebuilt after being razed by fire in January. St Marks Congregational Church, a member of the Association of Church Congregations of South Africa (ACCSA), in conjunction with The MOC Foundation, handed over the keys of the newly built structure to pre-school principal Nonkululeko Mooi, 65, on Monday. Reverend Warren Watermeyer, 36, said the initiative was part of the St Marks outreach project and they would continue to maintain relations with the school. “When you get involved in a project like this, the urgency is what really counts. We were really blessed to do this as quickly as we did and the only reason we were able to do so is because of the eagerness of the parties who were involved,” Watermeyer said. The creché burnt down, after some children were playing with fireworks on the school premises. Since the start of the school year, Mooi along with her colleagues Fikiswa Joyi, 63, and Nontutuzelo Slamse, 55, have been accommodating the children in their homes. Other pupils were taken in by pre-schools in the area. Mooi said: “We thank the Lord for giving people who could help us up until this moment. It’s a huge relief to finally have a place to accommodate all our kids”. The creché has 95 registered children between the ages of one and five. Residents praised the three women who took care of the pupils. Motherwell resident Sibusisiwe Khuzwayo, 64, said: “These ladies have been working tirelessly in safeguarding our kids while we are at work. “When we heard that the school had caught fire everyone was devastated. “We thank St Marks and everyone that contributed in the initiative.” With the final structure up and classes back in session, the school is now in need of a working toilet and fencing. Mooi asked Ward 58 councillor Mendiswa Makunga to heed their call for toilet facilities for the pre-school. But much more assistance needed if preschoolers are to return next week Help has been pouring in for a Motherwell creche that was destroyed by a blaze on January 2, leaving staff devastated and racing to set up some sort of structure to house children by next week. Following a… January 9, 2018 A pre-school in Pretoria has come under fire after a picture showing a black toddler "separated" from her white mates. A woman who says she is the cousin to the black child‚ Kefhiloe Mokoka‚‎ took to her Facebook page to share the picture‚ which shows the child sitting alone during… June 23, 2016 After being burned to the ground three years ago, the Nkqubela creche in KwaNomzamo township has been completely reconstructed to become a leading centre for early childhood development in the Kouga region. Rebuilt at a cost of R2.2-million by Kouga Wind Farm, which is located 15km away, the creche is… November 20, 2016