The South African economy grew more than expected at the end of last year as agriculture and trade recovered, data showed yesterday – boosting its chances of avoiding a potentially debilitating credit ratings downgrade. The easing of a drought boosted the above-forecast rise in GDP in the fourth quarter. However, economists said Cyril Ramaphosa’s election as leader of the ANC late in the quarter, and as president last month, had raised expectations that the country would make economic reforms and possibly keep its last investment grade rating. The economy grew 3.1% in the fourth quarter compared with the previous quarter – putting growth for the year at 1.3%. It beat the Treasury’s and other forecasts. Compared with a year earlier‚ gross domestic product increased 1.5% in the fourth quarter of last year. The Treasury had expected growth of 1%. The largest positive growth contributor was the remarkable recovery in the agriculture‚ forestry and fisheries sector‚ which rose 37.5% and contributed 0.8 of a percentage point to GDP growth. The trade‚ catering and accommodation industry grew 4.8% and contributed 0.6 of a percentage point. The primary sector (which includes agriculture and mining) increased by 4.9%‚ the secondary sector (manufacturing‚ electricity and construction) grew by 3.1% and the tertiary sector (trade‚ transport‚ finance‚ government and personal services) grew by 2.7% compared with the third quarter. This signals that the country’s economy is poised for a recovery. It is a vast improvement on the dismal 0.3% GDP growth achieved in 2016 but still remains weak by the country’s historic standards. In the third quarter‚ the economy grew by 2% quarter on quarter‚ demonstrating a resilience that suggested it was in better shape than most economists had previously thought. Expenditure on real GDP increased by 3.1% in the fourth quarter of last year, while final consumption expenditure by general government grew by 1.3%. The Treasury is forecasting growth to rise to 1.5% this year on political and policy certainty‚ renewed confidence and rising private fixed investment. Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene said on Monday it was likely the growth forecasts would be revised upwards due to improved confidence. Growth for 2016 was revised up to 0.6% from 0.3%. Third-quarter GDP growth last year was revised higher‚ from 2% to 2.3%. The revisions indicate that South Africa was not actually plunged into a recession last year. A recession is based on two consecutive quarters of negative growth. THE South African economy grew at its slowest pace in nearly five years in the first quarter of the year as strikes weighed on output and due to slower consumer spending‚ London research firm Capital Economics said. This follows disappointing economic data such as mining and manufacturing data. Capital Economics… May 15, 2014 Record maize harvest leads agriculture sector’s contribution to growth The agriculture sector was yesterday hailed as a shining light in South Africa’s declining economy following a positive contribution to the gross domestic product [GDP]. After showing negative growth in the two previous quarters – plunging South Africa into a recession… September 6, 2017 The Reserve Bank kept its benchmark repo rate unchanged at 7% yesterday, saying that while it was still concerned about inflation, the weak economy had provided some room to delay further policy tightening. “The MPC [monetary policy committee] is aware that some of the favourable factors that contributed to this… July 22, 2016