The Engen North End service station in Port Elizabeth was robbed twice, possibly by the same gang, in separate robberies at the weekend. The latest robbery happened at about 11pm on Saturday night when four men – one armed with a firearm – entered the Engen Quickshop in Govan Mbeki Avenue, North End. Four men had parked a Toyota Avanza nearby to use as a getaway car, police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said. “It is alleged that four men entered the shop and took two pies. When the cashier told them the price, a firearm was pointed at her and a fifth suspect entered,” Naidu said. “They demanded the cash from the till and helped themselves to chips, pies, cigarettes and cool drinks before leaving,” she said. “The suspects ran to a white Toyota Avanza which was parked nearby and sped off.” The robbery came only a day after the same Engen Quickshop was robbed. “It is alleged that on Friday evening at about the same time, a white VW Golf stopped at the petrol station to refuel. Two suspects then ran into the shop, produced a firearm and robbed the cashier. “They also helped themselves to cigarettes and cooldrinks before fleeing in the waiting vehicle.” Asked if it was the same gang, Naidu said that it was being investigated and it was very possibly the same robbers. Two cash-in-transit heists took place only an hour apart in Port Elizabeth on Monday – possibly by the same gang. In both robberies, no shots were fired but the suspects escaped with an undisclosed amount of money and three firearms taken from security guards. By Monday afternoon, police could still… March 5, 2018 Woolfies pawn shop in Circular Drive was robbed by four men posing as customers this morning (24/01/18). The robbery happened at about 11.40am when the men entered the shop and held the shop assistance at gunpoint. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said the four men walked into the… January 24, 2018 THREE businesses in Port Elizabeth were robbed yesterday – two within an hour – by men who pretended to be customers before holding up the staff at gunpoint. The first robbery occurred at about 3am when two men robbed a Total fuel station in Grahamstown Road. Two men had gone… June 10, 2016