While Somizi and Mohale are celebrating their engagement‚ posting loved-up pictures of each other‚ it’s going to be hard to ignore the hateful comments that are popping up in their comments section. Somizi confirmed on Monday that he popped the question in Paris while on “baecation” with Mohale Motaung. Their friends and Mzansi rallied behind them‚ celebrating love and the fact that they’ve found each other. Somizi‚ being in the public eye‚ is no stranger to homophobic comments and hate speech that sadly comes along with being a celebrity. For Mohale‚ this is all new. He posted a picture of the ring on Instagram and said: “I said yes. Yes I am getting married‚” followed by a whole bunch of heart emoticons. But his comments section was immediately filled with homophobic slurs and questions about why he is with Somizi. “Surely he is in a relationship with Somizi just for the money. There is nothing beautiful about this whole thing‚” wrote one person. And that’s a tame version of the filth that has been spewed. Mohale‚ buckle up and get ready: the world can be mean. We hope you’re focussing on messages like this instead: “The way I stalk this couple. The one dream would be to be a ring bearer right now.” Somizi Mhlongo pulled out all the stops in his proposal to bae Mohale Motaung. The couple jetted off to Paris for a #baecation and came back engaged! It’s a Big YESSSSS. it’s a golden ticket. #MCM #MCE A post shared by Somizi (@somizi) on Mar 18, 2018 at 10:14pm PDT… March 19, 2018 In what can be dubbed as a revealing interview‚ Somizi Mhlongo has for the first time spoken out about the Grace Bible Church controversy‚ which hogged headlines two weeks ago. Somizi cast the spotlight on homophobia in churches when he stormed out of a service‚ after a visiting pastor labelled… February 6, 2017 The fashion at the Sun Met in Cape Town this past weekend was daring to say the least‚ and one of the people who went all out was South Africa’s Diamond Minnie Dlamini‚ who stepped out of the norm with her make-up and dress. It was a glamorous day at… January 30, 2018