South African wines and brandies often win global recognition. Whiskies‚ not so much. But the country’s only commercial whisky distillery – in the small town of Wellington‚ in the Western Cape – snared two “world champion” awards in London on Thursday. Bain’s Cape Mountain Whisky was named the best grain whisky and its creator‚ Andy Watts‚ was chosen as the best distiller/blender at the Icons of Whiskies awards. “Receiving these two world titles is the most humbling experience of my 34-year career in the whisky industry‚” said Watts‚ a former professional cricketer. The awards‚ hosted annually by the UK’s Whisky Magazine‚ attracted entries from distilleries in Scotland‚ Ireland‚ the US‚ Japan and elsewhere‚ and Watts said the two prizes he received proved that South Africa had “overcome . . . the perception that only traditional whisky-producing countries can be taken seriously”. He added: “Our industry in South Africa is only 40 years old‚ and although we’ve had many hurdles along the way we have become innovative in our approach to manage our warmer climate‚ found creative ways to use homegrown raw material to our best advantage and constantly strive for crafting exceptional whiskies.” Born in the UK‚ Watts visited South Africa in the ’80s to coach cricket‚ and he was approached by the then Stellenbosch Farmers’ Winery (now Distell) to train in Scotland on whisky production. In 1991, he moved the company’s whisky production to the James Sedgwick Distillery in Wellington‚ where he developed Bain’s Cape Mountain Whisky over a decade before it was released in 2009 as the first to be made with South African maize. It was first named the world’s best grain whisky in 2013. IT'S official: South Africa loves whisky. Once seen as a nation of brandy-swigging, beer-boeped wine-quaffers, this country is turning to whisky in a big way – it is now the fifth largest consumer of Scotch whisky in the world. A representative of the only commercial whisky distillery in Africa, James… June 16, 2013 Fancy paying the price of a small house for a bottle of whisky? This year’s Makro Christmas brochure got tongues wagging with its R650 000 price tag for a bottle of Glenlivet 50-year-old Speyside single malt. But‚ if you do not feel like paying the price of two family sedans… October 27, 2017 WEEKEND Post and Bunnahabhain hosted an informative whisky evening in Port Elizabeth this month, followed by a special tasting of this iconic Scottish brand’s fine range of un-chillfiltered single malt whiskies. January 25, 2014