With today being a public holiday and a couple coming up in our future, I thought I’d share my top picks for mindless Netflix watching. These shows are great when you just want to switch off and have a good laugh. I mean, everyone knows if you want to cry you watch This is Us but – for all the other times – I give you: I love this show; it’s all about this really rich family who lose everything and end up living in this broken down Motel in a rural town. It is so funny, the family is ridiculous and over the top but somehow you warm up to them. I give it 4.5 out of 5 Ashton Kutcher and Danny Masterton are back together after That ’70s Show (one of my favourites actually).
This time the real-life best friends (I read this somewhere) play brothers and polar opposites. Colt (Ashton) is a failed baseball star who returns home to work with his brother Rooster. Okay, so Ashton’s character chews tobacco on the show and it’s distracting but it is such a good show. Their love interest, their parents, the whole concept, I am such a fan. I give it a 4 out of 5. This show is actually kind of stupid. It’s silly and the story line is crazy BUT I got into it quite quickly. This successful business woman decides to follow her heart, which is her ex-boyfriend and, as can be expected, things take a crazy turn. The ex is super lovable, his girlfriend is super sexy and the whole thing is super binge worthy. I give it a 3 out of 5 This is one of my favourites even though I stumbled across it purely by accident. Two older women who are more different than you can imagine, have their lives turned upside down when their husbands confess that they are in love with each other. This is not your traditional comedy. It’s risqué and out of the box and I really enjoyed it. I give it a 4 out of 5 This is my TOP PICK. The show is crazy; it’s over the top and is basically a telanovela on steroids, but I’m hooked. I am waiting for the next season like a drug addict waiting for her next fix. Jane is a virgin who is artificially inseminated and gives birth to her boss/teen crush’s child. It has one of the most bizarre story lines, EVER but it is super addictive. Eleanor Douglas-Meyers douglase@avusa.co.za HAIR colour and height are the only attributes Margit Meyer-Rödenbeck will admit to sharing with her blonde bimbo onstage persona, Dowwe Dola.   Margit even has her own hair cropped short to make sure there is no confusion between the real actress and the lollypop loving Dolla.… June 10, 2011 HER well-deserved summer break starts today but it will really be a winter trip, as she and her boyfriend leave for the US today on a month-long holiday. "We'll be spending Christmas in New York, New Year in Texas and after that will head to Florida to visit Disneyworld. It's… December 24, 2012 Three years ago last January, writer Peter Morgan and director Stephen Daldry went to see Ted Sarandos, chief content officer of Netflix, with an idea for a TV series. Thirty minutes later, Sarandos said they could have £100 million. Without seeing a script. The idea, we now know, was for… November 23, 2016