South African Sign Language (SASL) has been officially recognised as a home language in the country’s education system. “It is a source of great elation for all in the education sector that SASL is finally being recognised as part of the overt curriculum – as it always should have been‚” said Umalusi spokesperson Lucky Ditaunyane. Umalusi is the council for quality assurance in general and further education and training. “Deaf learners in South Africa no longer need to feel like foreigners in their own land‚ and at last they can exercise their rights to be taught and assessed in their own language. “This may be a bigger step than many people realise‚ for in recognising SASL as a home language in our education system‚ the system is by implication recognising deaf culture as a fundamental part of South African culture.” On Friday Umalusi released a report of its research study on the inclusion of SASL in the curriculum as one of the examinable subjects for the National Senior Certificate. The aim of the study was to provide guidance to the quality assurer for SASL as home language with specific reference to school-based assessment and national examinations. The scope of the study also encompassed understanding how deaf learners are assessed as well as the kind of resources and materials required for assessment‚ including identifying potential national moderators and evaluators. Chairperson of Umalusi council prof John Volmink said on Friday: “Today we can say to deaf learners that the system has fully embraced them‚ that their language is valued and respected‚ and that they now have the opportunity to learn and study and be tested through the medium of their home language.” FOR the deaf child, South African Sign Language is the key to life, literature and the richness of language, writes Kirsty Malcons of SLED (Sign Language Education and Development) All of us need language to play, grow, think and learn. For most children this happens spontaneously. Each child develops an… May 19, 2016 Umalusi‚ the Council for Quality Assurance in General and Further Education and Training‚ has approved the release of the National Senior Certificate (NSC) results for 2016 candidates‚ with the exception of those implicated in a paper leak and group copying. Council chairperson Professor John Volmink made this announcement in Pretoria… December 29, 2016 UNIVERSITIES are a microcosm of society. They represent a gateway to education, opportunities and advancement. This makes them an obvious site of potentially violent struggle for those denied access in any society. South Africans were reminded of this when the country’s campuses erupted in what have become known as the… November 20, 2015