The three Gupta brothers – Atul‚ Ajay and Rajesh – as well as former president Jacob Zuma’s son Duduzane Zuma have been called to appear before the parliamentary inquiry into Eskom next week Tuesday. While the Guptas’ lawyer Ahmed Gani has confirmed to the committee that he would make sure that the Gupta brothers attended the inquiry‚ African Christian Democratic Party MP Steve Swart said it was “highly unlikely” that they would appear‚ especially as some of them were being hunted for by the Hawks – along with Duduzane Zuma – on charges of corruption related to the Vrede dairy farm project. Zukiswa Rantho‚ the chairperson of the inquiry which is being conducted by the portfolio committee on public enterprises‚ was keen that the Guptas appear before the inquiry which is due to be wrapped up next week. MPs also wanted to get Gupta associates such as Salim Essa to appear. Home Affairs minister Malusi Gigaba will also appear before the committee to answer to allegations that he facilitated state capture while he was minister of public enterprises through the appointments he made to the boards of several state owned enterprises. President Jacob Zuma was directly linked to Eskom’s capture by former Eskom chairman Zola Tsotsi yesterday. Zuma, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown and their Gupta associates were the “hidden hand” which Tsotsi said were orchestrating affairs at the utility. This is the first direct link of Zuma to allegations of… November 23, 2017 The Gupta family would welcome a judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture‚ their lawyer Gert van der Merwe said on Tuesday. The family has come under intense scrutiny as a cache of damning leaked emails have been published‚ exposing the extent to which they have allegedly “captured”… June 6, 2017 Former Passenger Rail Agency SA (Prasa) Group CEO Lucky Montana gave an explosive account of the machinations of state capture on Tuesday‚ when he appeared before Parliament’s inquiry into Eskom. Montana gave a 65-page presentation to MPs in which he disputed claims by former transport minister Ben Martins inferring Montana… January 31, 2018