The South African National Editors Forum (Sanef) is concerned that inflammatory remarks on social media by Julius Malema could endanger journalists. The EFF leader accused TV news channel eNCA in a series of tweets of “pushing an anti-black agenda” and “perpetuating and defending white privilege”.   eNCA editor-in-chief Mapi Mhlangu confirmed that journalists working for the channel had received abuse and threats after Malema’s tweets. “Sanef recognises and supports Malema’s right to criticise media houses and to engage editors in robust debates about how we cover the news,” Mhlangu said. “But this right does not extend to making spurious and inflammatory remarks that could endanger journalists. This is regrettable and must be condemned. “Complaints about eNCA’s editorial coverage should be lodged with the Broadcasting Complaints Commission of SA or the Press Council‚ in the case of online content.” EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu was caught on video manhandling a journalist who took his photograph outside parliament on Tuesday. “Floyd grabbed my throat, saying‚ ‘You don’t have permission’‚” a visibly shaken Adrian de Kock‚ from Media 24, said. Shivambu apologised later‚ saying: “I accept that my impatience with the gentleman was inappropriate.” He said the EFF upheld media freedom‚ and freedom of association. Sanef condemned the incident: “This type of intolerant behaviour is unacceptable in a democracy,” it said. JULIUS Malema has declared war on the Guptas and has called on the family to leave South Africa immediately. The EFF leader also accused the family, who are close friends of President Jacob Zuma, of running a corrupt cartel. Malema’s declaration of war came only days after Zuma’s allies in… February 5, 2016 EFF leader Julius Malema is exchanging cooldrinks for cauliflower in a bid to lose weight. It seems size does matter to the EFF commander-in-chief when it comes to his own weight. Rumours have swirled on social media about Malema’s shrinking girth‚ and it has now been disclosed that he is… May 17, 2016 THERE is something exciting, inspiring and downright scary about the EFF’s growth and leader Julius Malema’s growing influence among black youth. The EFF election manifesto launch at the Orlando Stadium displayed its pulling power for all to see. Anyone undermining the EFF and Malema’s brigade of red fighters is simply… May 3, 2016