Athletics South Africa president Aleck Skhosana has congratulated star long jumper Luvo Manyonga on his silver medal achieved at the IAAF World Indoor Championships in Birmingham, England. Port Elizabeth-based Manyonga was the best South African team performer on Friday, day two, securing the silver medal with a best leap of 8.44m. This added four centimetres to his own African record – and it fell just 2cm short of Cuban gold medallist Juan Miguel Echevarria. It was South Africa’s first medal at the biennial indoor championships since 2010. “Congratulations to Manyonga,” Skhosana said. “It is a wonderful achievement to pick up our first indoor medal after eight years. “Never for one moment have we ever thought the indoors were going to be easy. Even our usual medal-performing athletes have found the competition a challenge. “We, however, continue to have high expectations of our athletes, even though we recognise all the hard work that has been put in by each member still in the competition.” The remaining members of the SA team struggled to mount a challenge for the podium in a tough long jump battle, with Ruswahl Samaai taking sixth place (8.05m) and Khotso Mokoena ending 14th (7.53m). On the track, Carina Horn put up a fight, but missed out on the 60m women’s final by the narrowest of margins. After taking second place in her heat in the morning session, she went on to finish third in her semifinal – in 7.18, just 0.01 outside a spot in the medal decider. Dominique Scott-Efurd also delivered a brave effort, turning out in two middle-distance events. Having taken ninth place in the 3 000m women’s final on the opening day of the championships, in clocking 8:59.93 – she finished fourth in her 1 500m heat, on day two, crossing the line in 4:09.8 and missing out on the final. Port Elizabeth-based long jumper Luvo Manyonga will go to the IAAF World Indoor Championships in Birmingham‚ England‚ in March beaming with confidence after winning big at the South African Sport Awards on Sunday night. The Olympic silver medallist walked away with the Sports Star of the Year trophy at the… November 14, 2017 Port Elizabeth-based long jump superstar Luvo Manyonga will be looking to start the year on a high note at the Paris Indoor Meeting at the Accor Hotel Arena tonight. The 27-year-old arrived in France on Sunday for a whistle-stop tour and will compete in a two-legged series before returning to… February 7, 2018 Long-jump wizard Luvo Manyonga flew out of Johannesburg on Tuesday night looking to add the world indoor title to the outdoor crown he won last year. Manyonga‚ who has not been beaten in a competition since finishing second by one centimetre at the 2016 Olympic Games‚ spearheads a small South… March 1, 2018