 More than seven hours after the Nelson Mandela Bay council convened this morning, not a single agenda item has been concluded. Both the special council sitting scheduled for 8am Thursday morning and the ordinary council meeting which was scheduled to start at 10am were disrupted by spurious points of order, screaming matches between political parties and at least three adjournments. After council speaker Jonathan Lawack, whose head is also on the chopping block, announced that discussions regarding the special sitting were suspended, the council broke into chaos. DA councillor Sandile Rhwexwana nearly came to blows with the ANC’s Mvuzo Mbelekane. Meanwhile, EFF councillor Zilindile Vena confronted PA councillor and new coalition partner Marlon Daniels regarding their midnight meeting this week following news that the PA would be voting with the DA. “You called us to your house, you told us you were at home and we should come,” Vena said. Vena, who was causing a scene by shouting at Daniels, attracted the attention of the entire council. Fellow caucus member UF Councillor Mkhuseli Mtsila said while at Daniels’ home the PA councillor said he would “kill the DA from the inside” and that he wanted to “beat up Athol Trollip.” Soon after, an argument broke out between a couple of DA and ANC councillors. Lawack then adjourned the meeting for 30 minutes.  Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille survived a motion of no-confidence by one vote on Thursday. Only 109 councillors voted in favour of the motion at a special council meeting on Thursday‚ even though the DA has 154 of the 231 council seats. Votes against totalled 110. Earlier‚ De Lille… February 15, 2018 In the first tangible sign of cracks in the Nelson Mandela Bay coalition government, the UDM abstained from attending a council meeting on Thursday morning. The meeting, scheduled for 9am, collapsed after all opposition parties - ANC, EFF, UF, PA and AIC - walked out of council chambers at the… January 26, 2017 Municipal land invaders from Wells Estate and Motherwell are going to be remunerated for the destruction of their property after municipal trucks bulldozed their informal dwellings. This was decided during a council meeting on Thursday after the majority of councillors agreed on a motion to have an eviction order reviewed… December 2, 2017