In-form Southern Kings flyhalf Kurt Coleman has been ruled out for the rest of the season after fracturing his leg during the team’s PRO14 clash against Benetton on Saturday. The crowd at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth feared the worst when Coleman was driven off the field on the back of a medical assistance cart in the 33rd minute of the game. Bad fortune has dogged Coleman since he signed for the Kings from the Stormers at the start of the PRO14 season. “Kurt sustained a left lower leg fracture and he was operated on. He is doing very well post surgery and he will be out for at least six months,” Kings doctor Lizanne Pieterse said. “Anthonie Volmink has a left knee injury and he will not be available for the Kings’ next match against Munster.” The Kings were pipped 36-35 by Benetton and remain stranded at the bottom of the PRO14 log. Martin du Toit replaced Coleman against Benetton, and he is expected to start against Munster in George on April 7. A veteran of 41 matches for the Stormers and 64 games for Western Province, Coleman arrived in Port Elizabeth at the start of the season to add extra experience to the Kings lineup. Coleman was in the Kings side that lost 57-10 to Scarlets in their first game of the season in Llanelli in Wales last year. However, he was injured in the Kings’ second game against Connacht, and made his comeback when the Port Elizabeth side came close to toppling Ulster. Coleman then fell out of favour, and was left out of the Kings squad on their last European tour. However, when he replaced Martin du Toit off the bench against the Dragons later in the campaign he grabbed his chance with both hands. Apart from his tactical play against the Dragons, Coleman also kicked six conversions and a penalty in a maiden PRO14 win which broke a 16-game losing streak. Davids said losing Coleman in the first half against Benetton had been a setback for his team. “It is no excuse, but I think Kurt had some good kicks and he controlled the game well just before his injury,” Davids said “Losing him at that stage of the game was a bit of a setback that put us under pressure.” The Kings’ final three PRO14 games are against Munster (April 7), Cardiff Blues (April 14) and the Cheetahs (April 27). Varsity Cup result: Madibaz 21 v Tuks 82 Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids has paid tribute to his “fearsome threesome”, who he says, are doing the dirty work for his team in the PRO14. Davids singled out loose forwards Andisa Ntsila, Tienie Burger and Ruaan Lerm for special praise ahead of his side’s clash against Benetton at… March 20, 2018 Roused by a thumping 45-13 maiden PRO14 win over the Dragons, the Southern Kings will be scenting blood when they face Benetton at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium today. They have, however, been warned by their coach Deon Davids not to go into dreamland after thrashing the Welsh outfit in impressive… March 24, 2018 The Southern Kings have put their faith in flyhalf Kurt Coleman to mastermind a second PRO14 win when they face Benetton at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. Coleman made a big impression when he played off the bench when the Kings beat the Dragons, and… March 22, 2018