An attempted cash-in-transit heist that took place on the intersection of Kent Avenue and Grove Street in Randburg‚ Johannesburg‚ left a suspect fatally wounded. Emergency service staff and law enforcement officers responded to the scene at around 10am on Tuesday. Police spokesperson captain Mavela Masondo said there was a shootout between security officers and the suspects. “Security came to fetch money from one of the outlets in the area when they were approached by a number of suspects. This led to a shootout. The other suspects managed to escape while one was shot and fatally wounded‚” said Masondo. It appears that while fleeing‚ the suspects then tried to hijack a car after they abandoned the ones they came with at the scene. “We have since recovered the car and a firearm which was used to commit the crime‚” he said. The driver of the hijacked vehicle was not injured.  Omgggg just witnessed a Crime outside my window @eNCA @ewnupdates @Abramjee #Randburg pic.twitter.com/KjaOprtlI0 — Thato Radise (@Tharadi) March 6, 2018   Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. A suspected robber was shot and arrested after allegedly being involved in a brazen cash-in-transit heist at the Ziyabuya Complex in Kwadwesi which has left one shopper critically wounded. Police said  the shootout saw a G4S cash-in-transit security officer return fire on a group of four robbers who attempted to ambush them… September 14, 2015 Members of the armed gang who was arrested after a shootout with Western Cape police while attempting to rob a wholesale shop in Epping‚ Cape Town‚ have been labelled career criminals. The botched robbery saw three of the gang members killed and another three arrested during the robbery attempt on… October 19, 2015 PE store shootout may be linked to Peddie heist A manhunt is under way following an early morning gunfight between security guards and an armed gang who tried to ambush them during a cash drop-off in Sidwell yesterday. The attempted heist happened at the Boxer Superstore in Commercial Road at about… May 2, 2017