There was a time, a few years ago, when I quite fancied being a farmer’s wife one day. Spending time in the Karoo, covering stories that took me to sheep and angora goat farms, instilled in me a love for the area and for life on the farm. Never mind that I had this romanticised idea of what farm life entailed. In my version, I would wake up, send off the family after a hearty farmstyle breakfast, then spend my day either preparing meals for the rest of the day or freelancing for Farmer’s Weekly. I recently got to play farmer housewife, albeit just for weekend and minus the farmer husband and the actual hard work that goes into maintaining a farm, thanks to My Kitchen Rules SA (MKRSA) mom-and-daughter team Elanie (or Lani as everyone calls her) Lombard and Louzel Lombard Steyn. The two – who made it all the way to the semifinals – are offering Farm to Table lifestyle experiences on the Waterval family farm outside Cradock starting this weekend. But first, they invited me and a few other Karoo foodies to be their guinea pigs for what they call “an immersive farm to table food experience”. And so it was, on a Friday afternoon last November, that my food-loving cousin Leizel and I set off for Cradock. We arrived just as the finishing touches were being added to the G&T Bar at Lani’s True Living in the town’s main street. A delightful coffee shop complete with a cosy courtyard and a shop that sells handmade items, such as crocheted placemats and coasters, this was our first stop. Gin cocktails expertly prepared by Louzel’s husband, Louis Steyn, in hand, we sat in the courtyard, enjoying light snacks and chatting ahead of dinner. Gin o’clock in the Karoo… Spending the weekend with mom and daughter @lani_lombard and @louzellombard of #MKRSA fame…. @true_living_shop #KarooLiving #KarooFood ##TrueLiving #FarmExperience #TrueLivingFarmToTable A post shared by  Karen van Rooyen (@kavaro.za) on Nov 10, 2017 at 7:14am PST  And so it starts… Enjoying platters and G&Ts while our dinner is being prepared. @lani_lombard and @louzellombard are preparing the steak with mushroom and marrow sauce they made on #MKRSA. @true_living_shop All part of a true #FarmExperience weekend… #KarooLife #KarooFood #TrueLiving #Humus #Pesto #Biltong #Butter #FarmToTable #TrueLivingFarmToTable A post shared by  Karen van Rooyen (@kavaro.za) on Nov 10, 2017 at 7:25am PST  Of course, the conversation soon steered towards MKRSA, but – try as we might to pry anything out of them – Lani and Louzel would not divulge any information about the reality TV cooking show. In the weeks just before our visit, the two had impressed the judges with their mushroom and bone marrow sauce so that this was an obvious choice for me with steak. They recreated the sauce for us, a decadent blend of exotic mushrooms, brandy, cream and bone marrow. We ate and chatted until well into the night before heading back in the direction of Port Elizabeth where the family farm is nestled between the mountains about an hour’s drive from Cradock. (We would only see on our return in daylight just how high up we were.) The next morning we were up early, excited about baking bread, beating butter for brunch and prepping carpaccio for our post-nap afternoon snack. First up was the bread. Lani had set up stations for us around the workspace in the centre of the family kitchen, right in front of a mint green AGA stove. First, we mixed yeast in water before adding the rest of the ingredients. Then came the next step. “You don’t need bread,” Lanie said. I could not believe what I had just heard. I felt like I looked like the big-eyed shocked emoji. Who was this person? And why would she say something so terrible? “You don’t knead bread. You fold it until it’s elastic. The dough will tell you when it doesn’t want to stretch anymore,” she said. Soon, after proving twice, our artisanal breads were in the oven and we moved on to the butter. It’s as easy as beating up some cream until it separates and forms curds and buttermilk (this can be kept for making rusks), rinsing the butter until the water runs clean, adding salt, and then beating it with a wooden spoon to extract as much water as possible. #TBT… So in November last year, I spent a weekend with #MKRSA mom and daughter semi-finalists @lani_lombard and @louzellombard at their Cradock farm. There, we baked bread, beat butter (because that sounds better than “made” butter), cut up a springbok for biltong, carpaccio and venison which we then also made. In the first video, Lani is mixing fresh cream until it separates into curds and buttermilk. In the second, she is beating the butter to extract as much water as possible. This weekend, they are hosting their first farm lifestyle experience, open to the public, at the family farm deep in the mountains outside #Cradock. Now, you too, can spend a weekend with the proudly Karoo foodies who wowed the #MKRSA judges with their marrow and mushroom sauce. The next weekend is in May and you need to book as only 6 people can be accommodated at a time. Read all about my experience in Weekend Post and www.heraldlive.co.za this weekend. A post shared by  Karen van Rooyen (@kavaro.za) on Mar 15, 2018 at 2:31am PDT  Bread baked and butter beaten, it was time for brunch – our fresh bread and butter accompanied by an assortment of cheese, poached eggs and fruity preserves. Our next mission was trekking along to the cold room where two springbok – shot on the farm just two days before – awaited Lani and her knife. She moved swiftly and with accuracy, removing the legs and a strip from the neck that would be used for our afternoon snacks and supper – biltong, carpaccio and venison pie. Fearing the knife more than the springbok, I nervously removed one leg as Lani reminded us that the meat, like the bread, would guide us and that all we need was slight pressure with the knife. No need to hack or saw. We headed back to the kitchen where we cut the legs into sections for biltong – there’s more to making biltong than just hacking up a good piece of meat – and prepared a few other pieces of the venison for carpaccio which we would have as an afternoon snack. “Take the best cuts and eat that first. That’s why we are doing carpaccio first,” Louzel said, caressing the slab of meat in front of her. She has been doing this since she was 10. “Use the prime cuts for what it’s meant for. It’s so good, especially if it’s just been shot.” Later that afternoon, we took a walk to what is arguably Lani’s pride and joy – her vegetable garden – to gather carrots, beetroot, radishes, lettuce and herbs for supper that evening. We kuiered around the kitchen centre as we spooned the venison pie filling Lani had prepared earlier into ramekins and topped the pies with homemade pastry. We sat around the family dining table as the Lombards told us stories, dad Wentzel proving to be a very animated raconteur who had us in stitches with his version of a family hiking trip.  The next morning he took us on a drive around the family farm ending, finally, at a dry river bed on the property where Lani, Louzel and Louis were preparing breakfast – wors and braaibroodjies using up all our leftovers from the weekend on the fire. Looking around, at what was truly a family effort to provide an authentic farm stay, I was reminded of what Louzel had said at supper the night before: “This is sharing with you what a normal day is for us because really, we take apart a buck. “Our entire lives revolve around food and eating and we want to promote family life.” Here’s how you can make Lani and Louzel’s Mushroom and Bone Marrow sauce that wowed the MRKSA judges:   Father of three in critical condition after being ambushed by robbers A father of three is fighting for his life after being brutally attacked on his Alexandria farm at the weekend. What was meant to be a happy family get-together in Port Elizabeth to watch the South Africa against Italy… November 27, 2017 TWO Karoo farmers have flown out of PE on a ground-breaking mission to the US, to get the low-down on fracking, in the country where it all began. The agricultural co-operative BKB is sponsoring the full cost of the 17-day fact-finding trip to the tune of R76000 – but it… June 20, 2011 I am sitting on the stoep. The sun is low. The afternoon is setting in. Dusk will follow soon after. The land is dry – drier than I have ever seen it in the nine years I have been coming to this stoep, this farmhouse, in the Free State. The… July 11, 2016