Human rights lawyer Richard Spoor is gearing for a fight with Tiger Brands over the listeriosis scandal that has so far claimed 183 lives. Spoor believes Tiger Brands‚ one of the country’s largest food manufacturers, should be held accountable for failing to protect its consumers against the deadly disease. The class action lawsuit could be the first under the 2011 Consumer Protection Act. Consumer Protection Act lawyer Paul Esselaar gave advice to victims on how to build a case against Tiger Brands. Esselaar knows of no other class action under this act. It is unique in that consumers do not have to prove that the company that sold them the goods was negligent in making harmful goods. This makes it easier for consumers. Any class action suit would use Section 61 of the Consumer Protection Act‚ which makes any supplier of the goods liable‚ as long as the consumer can prove that they were harmed by the goods sold by the suppliers. This means large retailers – like Pick n Pay or Shoprite – who sold polony can face action, not just the manufacturers of cold meats. “While the Consumer Protection Act does not require a consumer to prove negligence‚ it does require the consumer to prove causation. “What this means is that the consumer must find as much evidence about their case as possible. “It would be best to get evidence as quickly as you can‚” Esselaar said. “Essentially what attorneys acting for the suppliers will argue is that it is impossible to prove that the case of listerosis started at their client’s shop.” Spoor’s first class action lawsuit – taking on large mining companies on behalf of gold miners who developed silicosis – has been going on for two years. If a settlement is not reached this year‚ it could take up to 15 years. – TimesLIVE Rush to remove listeriosis-linked products Supermarkets across South Africa raced yesterday to withdraw processed meat products made at a factory found to be the origin of the world’s worst-ever listeriosis outbreak. Mozambique and Namibia announced an immediate ban on processed meat imports from South Africa, while Malawi urged shops to… March 6, 2018 Woman tells of her battle to beat deadly listeriosis After eating a single piece of polony between two slices of white bread Rina Adriaanse almost died, but it was only when she woke up in a hospital that the seriousness of listeriosis hit home. Adriaanse, 53, who lives in Windvogel… March 10, 2018 South Africa could see one of the biggest class action lawsuits if families of those who died and those hospitalised after contracting Listeriosis decide to sue. “There is a possibility of a class action. It could be South Africa’s real action. Whoever is responsible [for the outbreak] could face class… March 5, 2018