Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has expressed his dismay at the wanton disregard of the law and injustice following allegations that members of the Mancoba Seven Angels Ministries in Ngcobo were forbidden to have identity documents, while children were not allowed to have birth certificates and prohibited from attending school. “Government will not watch on the sidelines while people’s constitutional rights are being trampled on by those who seek to exploit vulnerable members of society,” he said. Gigaba announced that the Department of Home Affairs had issued a directive to its provincial office to visit the area and to initiate an audit of the church members’ paperwork‚ with a view to begin the process of documenting them to ensure that they reflect on the national population register. The constitution states that no citizen may be deprived of citizenship and guarantees the right to a name and a nationality for every child from birth. Gigaba’s office said in a statement: “To this end‚ without a birth certificate‚ any individual’s nationality cannot be affirmed‚ thus rendering them stateless. “Of particular concern to me is the exploitation of children and women whose rights have been blatantly disregarded by being denied their basic right, their sense of belonging, their birthright to identity.” Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba was forced to defend both his wife and his economic adviser, while he also dished out marital advice, in his first appearance before his parliamentary oversight committee. Appearing before the standing committee on finance yesterday‚ Gigaba was asked by EFF MP Floyd Shivambu whether his wife, Noma,… May 10, 2017 Issuing of smart cards streamlined Home Affairs has partnered with major banks in a deal that will allow people to apply and collect their smart ID cards at their nearest branch. Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba said yesterday the deal was part of the department’s plans to expand its footprint… February 18, 2015 There are two different types of illegal immigrants living in South Africa - those who want to contribute to the economy and those who have malicious intentions. This is according to Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba‚ who was addressing members of the media at the department’s head offices in Pretoria… December 13, 2016