 I have never put myself through the trouble of drafting a bucket list. Perhaps the time or motivation had not come yet, but if it had, I am quite certain the past week spent exploring what is arguably South Africa’s most adventurous province, would have seen quite a few experiences ticked off. But had I compiled that list, I imagine having a lion walk less than five metres away from me while trying my best not to move, would not have been on there. Bucket list or not, the unexpected happens when you fully hand yourself over to thoroughly exploring the under-appreciated beauty of the Eastern Cape. As we sat dead still in one of Sibuya Game Reserve’s vehicles so as not to upset the cubs just metres away in front of us during our morning game drive, one of the reserve’s lions showed up from behind me, walking by so closely that I could almost hear it breathe while I held my breath. At that moment, I questioned both the sanity of adrenaline junkies for finding pleasure in such intense spaces and ours for thinking that visiting lions in their own jungles at 6am was a good idea. I mean, what if – like myself – they weren’t exactly fond of mornings? But when I thought by myself, “Man, that was fun!” with a sigh of relief while replaying the scene, I realised the journey was not only about discovering the Province of Legends, but parts of myself in the process. And it turns out a part of me is an adrenaline junkie to some extent! Sibuya, in Kenton-on-Sea, was our final stop on day three of a whirlwind trip arranged by the Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Agency so media guests could visit some of the province’s award-winning attractions.  The fun had started a few days earlier when we made our way west from Port Elizabeth towards Tsitsikamma, our first pit-stop along the way, to enjoy zip-lining in the rain at Tsitsikamma Canopy Tours. I would discover just how much I enjoy an adrenaline rush a few times during the trip, but more about that later. Given the thrilling beauty of our province as you drive up and downhill on sometimes bumpy gravel roads leading deep into refreshingly green forests, anyone can turn into a brave adrenaline junkie. Speaking of bravado (or the lack thereof), one of my worst fears at the mention of camping tents is snakes, so you can imagine how fast my inner athlete was ready to run when I discovered that Sibuya – a biodiverse home of just under 3000ha to more than 50 different large mammal species, including South Africa’s Big Five, more than 160 tree species and just under 400 bird species – would be our home for the evening. However, my concerns were eased by the 45-minute boat cruise we took across the Kariega River while enjoying cold beverages, the only way to get to the haven’s three camping lodges: the family-friendly Forest Camp, the luxurious Bush Lodge and River Camp for a romantic couple’s stay.  The 12-year-old reserve offers sharing and single luxurious tents, two of which are solar powered, and equipped with an indoor shower, bathtub and toilet with wooded and nature-themed decor. For those who don’t mind the bush but still want a five-star stay, a bush lodge is where guests get full electricity access, a swimming pool and air conditioning in their luxurious chalets. The combination makes Sibuya Game Reserve the perfect “glamping” getaway.  While mesmerised by Sibuya’s tranquility, I would later discover another perfect “glamping” jewel hidden in Haga-Haga, a hamlet situated 60km to the east of East London. Miarestate Hotel and Spa, named after the owner’s late daughter Mia, is 740ha of heaven on earth where its efficient and soft-spoken staff serve as angels. When we drove from East London for an hour along the bumpy gravel road down to Haga-Haga in the dark, the discovery of a five-star luxury resort in the wilderness was the last of my expectations. Nonkqubela Mayatula’s Miarestate Hotel and Spa is an absolute gem. We were welcomed with strawberry cocktails by friendly staff who later escorted us to our designated bedrooms to freshen up and head for dinner in the restaurant. Mine was a spacious executive room with its own pool and an outdoor shower.  Briefly after our arrival, we were welcomed by heavy rain and a thunderstorm, and embraced the isiXhosa culture where rain is believed to be a sign of good luck. At dinner, we enjoyed spicy prawns served with garlic butter as a starter, tender lamb rack served with whole grain ash potatoes, roasted onion, baby carrots and red wine jus for mains and créme brûlée for dessert. Mayatula took us for a drive up and down the hills the next morning to see her isolated retreat of two interlinked luxury cabins, her six soon-to-be launched luxury tents for the perfect “glamping” experience and her personal favourite: a sophisticated Tuscan villa overlooking the ocean.  The morning drive was nippy with a jump out of the 4×4, a swift view of the property and on to the next, so we could make it in time for an East London city tour before the airport. As brief as the drive was, it was sufficient to visit a boardwalk not too far from the villa where you’ll spot a couple of sable antelopes and warthogs by the kids’ emporium where parents can leave their mini humans to be pampered. Driving off the property was an uphill battle as my heart and mind longed for more time to enjoy the isolated tranquility. The ride along the rocky road on our way out past Ngxingxolo Cultural Village was not as irritating anymore for me as I had learnt that Miarestate was worth every ram and as the Zulu saying goes: Induku enhle igawulwa ezizweni (“The most beautiful fighting stick is found in foreign places”). We visited a lot more on the trip but Sibuya Game Reserve and Miarestate Hotel and Spa were some of my under-explored highlights.  Tsitsikamma is already frequently on the lips and plans of both local and international travellers who fancy a visit to the Eastern Cape. Mostly popular for its endless list of thrilling outdoor activities, Tsitsikamma and its surrounds offer fetching accommodation for an enjoyable holiday. For a serene and luxurious getaway in the mountains, Fernery Lodge and Chalets is the go-to resort. When we spent a night at the romantic and family-friendly four-star destination, waking up to the rhythm of drizzling waterfalls and bird tweets and whistles was my favourite part of the stay. We were welcomed at the reception area situated close to the lodge and its luxurious, individually themed suites. My suite for the night was the sea-facing Toscana, one of the first few to reach from the reception area. Alluring beige, cream and white decor and heated floors give the room a cosy feel while the balcony, overlooking the Indian Ocean, made me want to sip a cup of tea and watch the hypnotic sunrise. What initially frustrated but ended up becoming one of my favourite features about the place, was the lack of cellphone reception except for Wi-Fi availability in the common room and dining lounge. It frustrated me because I had planned to catch up on some work but I viewed it as the perfect opportunity to reacquaint myself with nature. Besides, between picnics on the deck overlooking waterfalls, boat rowing, mountain biking, a braai area, a swimming pool and jacuzzi with a view to enjoy, there is hardly much time to seek connection with the outer world.  Separated from the lodge, the Fernery chalets are suitable for family and couple outings. Owner Frans Gerber’s personal assistant, sweet Diane Sampson, told us about the popular Dolphin Trail established by SANParks, Misty Mountain Reserve and the Fernery, which starts at SANParks towards the east for two days while the Autotrail heads west for five days. During the Dolphin Trail, hikers spend the first night at SANParks, the second at Misty Mountain and the third at Fernery, meals and drinks included. While I wished we had spent more time at the Fernery, our group all took the beauty of the surroundings with us.
Rates and more information on the Fernery Lodge and Chalets are available at www.forestferns.co.za  When Mdantsane’s Mthombo Nkula, 51, was accidentally shot and paralysed by his friend in 1991, he had to ditch his teaching qualification, re-evaluate his strengths and put food on the table, which would lead to the opening one of Mdantsane’s favourite kasi restaurants. The popular Mthombo’s Palace in Mdantsane, NU7, officially opened at its current premises on the owner’s birthday, October 24 2015, but the business had already started on a much smaller scale in 2002 and with just R200 in capital. The wheelchair-bound Nkula narrated the journey leading up to his double-storey lounge becoming a major tourist attraction and African food hotspot. The restaurant was put on the spotlight in 2015, when MTV Base selected it as the best tourist attraction venue in the province. Mthombo’s Palace offers a fun Kasi environment with friendly staff, rich African cuisine including Umnqusho (samp and beans), Skulkop (Sheep’s head), Imifino and a wide range of drinks. The lounge, which attracts a diverse clientele, including regular patrons and tourists, also hosts Sunday Chillaz and entertainment events. “Most of our visitors come from outside East London; Durban, Johannesburg, Cape Town and even outside South Africa,” Mthombo said. He has plans to expand the place to include B&B facilities, and additional branches in East London and across the country, as time and money allow. The place has CCTV coverage and there are 15 permanent staff – including waiters and car guards – all employed from and around Mdantsane. Mthombo’s Palace is open from 9am to 10pm daily and 9am to 2pm on weekends.  1. The Fernery Lodge and Chalets is owned by Plettenberg Bay-based couple Frans and Bev Gerber, who inherited it as an undeveloped stretch of land which Frans would initially use in his fern exporting business. They lived in a small wooden cottage on the property while the lodge was being built. The property was expanded in 2001 due to the popularity of the Dolphin Trail. 2. Miarestate Hotel and Spa owner Nonkqubela Mayatula, originally from Dutywa, named the property after her daughter, Mia, who died in 2003. The resort’s name also has other connotations: the ME in its logo is to emphasise that every guest’s experience is intimate and personal. The ‘rest’ in MiaRESTate ties in with the resort’s mission to give guests plentiful rest through multiple facilities including a massage centre, while the ‘ate’ at the end of their name is a nod to their cuisine. 3. Miarestate is home to more than 300 bird species. 4. The Bloukrans Bridge in Tsitsikamma is 216m high, making it the highest bungy bridge in the world. 5. The oldest person in the world to bungy jump was Mohr Keet at Bloukrans Bridge in 2016, at the age of 96. 6. The Baviaanskloof Nature Reserve is about 270000ha in size, with the Baviaanskloof river stretching between two provinces – the Eastern Cape and Western Cape. 7. The Baviaanskloof Nature Reserve was identified as a world heritage site by Unesco in 2002. 8. Mthombo’s Palace in Mdantsane was the home of owner Mthombo Nkula’s brother, which Mthombo bought and renovated to run as a restaurant. 9. Sibuya Game Reserve has been operating for 18 years and started out as a humble camping facility. 10. Sibuya Game Reserve is home to all species of the Big Five, but lost three of its rhinos to poaching in 2016. Being ranked as the poorest province in South Africa, and with the lowest matric pass rate on top of that, some may paint the Eastern Cape as a lost cause. However, it remains a booming tourist attraction. The number of Lilizela national awards scooped by the province’s tourist attractions proves it. The winners include: 1. Cannon Rocks Holiday Resort won in the five-star Caravan and Camping category; 2. Jeffreys Bay’s Zebra Lodge won in the four-star country house category; 3. Somerset East’s The Royal won in the two-star guest house category; 4. Port Elizabeth’s Town Lodge won in the two-star hotel category; 5. East London International Convention Centre won in the five-star MESE category; 6. Tsitsikamma’s Fernery Lodge and Chalets won in the four-star lodge category; 7. Cape St Francis’s Chokka Trail won in the Beach Experience category; 8. Miarestate Hotel and Spa in Haga- Haga won in the Lap of Luxury category; 9. Port Elizabeth’s Raggy Charters won in the Marine Adventure category; 10. Baviaanskloof World Heritage Site won in the Scenic Beauty category; 11. East London’s Mthombo’s Palace was the third runner-up in the Emerging Entrepreneur(s) of the Year category; 12. Port Elizabeth’s hospitality consultant Francine Zana received the Minister’s Award of Excellence. THE traumatised rhino calves left orphaned after their mothers were gruesomely poached at Sibuya Game Reserve last week are giving their carers something to smile about as they settle in at a rehabilitation centre. But their badly injured father, Bingo, lost his battle for survival on Saturday, three days after… March 29, 2016 From June 2 to 9 Sibuya Game Reserve is offering a Winter Yoga Retreat including a comprehensive introduction to the philosophy and practise of yoga. At this retreat you will relax, rejuvenate and revive. You will have an opportunity to engage in learning sessions and discussions, practice and self-reflection all… March 3, 2018 IT is vital that the EP Kings display more patience when they are on attack against the Golden Lions at Ellis Park in Johannesburg tomorrow. That is the message Kings head coach Carlos Spencer will deliver to his troops ahead of what promises to be his team's toughest Currie Cup… August 15, 2014