Police have launched a massive manhunt for a gang of heavily armed suspects after a cash-in-transit robbery at business premises in Ferndale‚ Randburg‚ yesterday. Police said preliminary reports indicated that the gang, at least seven-strong, made off with an undisclosed amount of cash and commodities after holding up a security cash truck. One suspect was fatally wounded during a shootout between the robbers and the security detail escorting the cash truck. “Police recovered a total of three high-calibre firearms‚ two magazines with live ammunition‚ as well as three vehicles suspected to have been used in the commission of the crime,” police said. “Another vehicle was recovered at Randparkridge‚ Honeydew‚ which is believed to have been hijacked and later abandoned by the suspects after the robbery.” While appealing for any information about the robbery and those behind it‚ police warned members of the public not to confront the suspects as they were armed and dangerous. Police spokesman Captain Mavela Masondo said there was a shootout between security officers and the suspects. “Security came to fetch money from an outlet in the area when they were approached by a number of suspects. A shootout followed in which one of the suspects was killed.”  AN armed robbery suspect was shot dead and three men were arrested when police cornered a gang after a high-speed car chase in Port Elizabeth last night. The robbery took place shortly before 7pm when four men entered the Spar Tops liquor store in Rink Street, Central, and held up… October 1, 2015 ONE suspected cash-in-transit robber was arrested this afternoon following a brazen daylight heist in Todd Street, North End, at about 3:15pm. A manhunt is underway for the remaining three robbers who fled the scene. The arrest comes after a G4S cash-in-transit vehicle was robbed by four gunmen. According to police, one… April 4, 2016 FOUR suspected robbers were wounded in a dramatic car chase and shoot-out with police only moments after Transform Electrical Wholesaler in Paterson Road, North End, was robbed yesterday afternoon. Within minutes of the robbery, the police helicopter was activated and hovered overhead, assisting with the apprehension of four suspects. A… February 1, 2016