 Spruce up your gin and tonic recipe with something a bit more interesting than just a lemon or lime wedge, cucumber or mint leaf as accompaniments. Consider adding a local ‘unconventional’ flavour to take it up a notch by adding a refreshing, herbal tonic to your drink. Buchulife shares an easy, step-by-step Buchu-infused gin and tonic recipe for that irresistible, lasting taste. Gin lovers, take note: 60ml Wilderer Fynbos Gin (or any other Fynbos infused Gin)
150ml tonic water
150ml Buchulife Sparkling Herbal Water (lime variant)
1 tablespoon fresh lime juice
A slice or two of fresh lime for garnish
6 A sprig of fresh Buchu (optional) Place a glass in the freezer for approximately 10 minutes to chill
Place a few ice cubes in the chilled glass
Add the Wilderer Fynbos Gin
Add tonic water
Add Buchulife Sparkling Herbal Water (Lime)
Add lime juice
Add slices of lime and sprigs of Buchu for garnish
Serve immediately and enjoy It’s that easy and since the Buchulife Herbal Water is sugar-free and sweetener-free, there is no need to call it a guilty pleasure! Buchulife herbal sparkling water is available at Pick n Pay stores nationwide. Globally it’s called the “ginaissance” – the trend for small-batch, locally-made craft gin – and South Africa has embraced the movement, with more than a dozen artisan distilleries springing up in the past year and giving it a unique local spin with ingredients like fynbos, buchu and spekboom. Craft gin… January 28, 2017 Clare Liardet dips into non-alcoholic cocktails, cordials and clever concoctions not only for a dry January but all year round, and comes up with four winners Whether you’re, teetotal, pregnant, having a go at a dry January, trying to lose weight or just cutting down, most of us will want… January 10, 2018 Easy preparation makes for a relaxing time with friends, family On New Year’s Eve I love having a relaxed evening at home with friends and family. I try not to go overboard with the food, and keep things light and simple so that the following day I don’t start the… December 30, 2017