A section of Heugh Road in Walmer will be partially closed from Thursday, 15 March for up to two weeks, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality said. The closure is to allow for the rehabilitation of the section between 4th Avenue and 8th Avenue, ahead of the Ironman 70.3 World Championship in September. The partial road closure will be enforced between 9am and 4pm every day while work is in progress. Member of the Mayoral Committee for Sport, Recreation, Arts and Culture, Councillor Siyasanga Sijadu, said the successful hosting of both the Ironman African Championship next month and the event on 1 and 2 September will once again emphasise the municipality’s ability to host world class events with distinction. “However in this instance, the good comes with minor inconveniences such as the partial road closure of the busy Heugh Road for up to two weeks. “One lane will be open at all times to allow for traffic to pass through but motorists should expect a delay. Perhaps they should consider alternative routes as part of their itinerary,” Sijadu said.  [tribulant_slideshow gallery_id="27"] Also click here for maps. ROAD CLOSURE INFO SATURDAY, 28 MARCH 2015 Vodacom CTC Road closure on Marine Drive: Hobie Beach to Noordhoek from 07:00-11:00 SUNDAY, 29 MARCH 2015 Standard Bank IRONMAN African Championship FULL ROAD CLOSURES: Marine Drive from the NMMU back gate to Driftsands Drive will… March 27, 2015 [tribulant_slideshow gallery_id="85"] IRONMAN South Africa operations director Paul Wolff says the city is ready to host the 12th edition of the Standard Bank Ironman Africa Championship at Hobie Beach on Sunday. A total of 1 859 athletes, 180 from the Bay, will tackle this year’s race. The field includes 616… April 6, 2016 The planned cycling route for the Ironman 70.3 World Championship has been altered to provide a safer course for the thousands of international triathletes expected in Port Elizabeth in September. This emerged at a joint media briefing by mayor Athol Trollip and Ironman world championship vice-president Diana Bertsch yesterday. A… January 19, 2018