The ANC is playing its cards close to its chest, refusing to reveal the name of its “credible” mayoral candidate ahead of Thursday’s no-confidence motion against Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip. ANC Eastern Cape secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi said they would not discuss the name of the candidate with the media as it was an internal matter and would be canvassed with other parties first. “It’s an internal matter for now and such discussions will be canvassed with other parties before we talk to the media,” he said. On Thursday, councillors in Nelson Mandela Bay will deliberate on a number of motions to be tabled by opposition parties. They include motions to remove council speaker Jonathan Lawack, chief whip Werner Senekal, to rescind a previous decision to do away with the deputy mayor position, and to remove all portfolio heads in the mayoral committee. Speaking at the 33rd anniversary of the Langa Massacre in Uitenhage on Wednesday, ANC acting regional chairman Phumzile Tshuni said the party would bus in people to the Vuyisile Mini Square in front of the Port Elizabeth City Hall for the council votes. “We will organise transport for our people so that when he is removed, he must hear the thunderous footsteps of our people,” he said. Tshuni said at the rally that there was a lack of adequate service delivery for residents in the townships and the northern areas. He bemoaned the reconnection fee that account defaulters had to pay when their power is cut. “Our people’s electricity is being cut off. You buy R50 electricity and yet pay a R300 reconnection fee,” Tshuni said. “Our people don’t have houses. Our people don’t have jobs and this is why we’re requesting your assistance in removing this coalition government.” Asked if ANC councillor Litho Suka, who has been on extended sick leave, would attend the council meeting, regional secretary Themba Xathula confirmed he would. “He’s fit and he’ll be there,” Xathula said. Meanwhile, the DA and its coalition partners ACDP and COPE held a mass prayer service at the Chatty community hall last night. This was in aid of seeking divine intervention ahead of the motions next week. While the ANC will support the EFF’s move to oust Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip, it is wary about jumping into bed with the EFF. This was the view expressed by ANC Bay branches at a meeting with some of the party’s national bosses at the weekend, including secretary-general… March 20, 2018 ANC to announce mayoral names in two weeks, says Mantashe THE ANC will announce its mayoral candidate for Nelson Mandela Bay in two weeks’ time, according to party secretary-general Gwede Mantashe. In an interview yesterday, Mantashe said there was nothing special about the Bay and that its candidate would be… June 8, 2016 OPPOSITION parties in the Eastern Cape, announcing their mayoral candidates, have revealed ambitions of being in charge of the province’s two metropolitan municipalities. Both COPE and the PAC have thrown down the gauntlet, releasing their preferred candidates for the Nelson Mandela Bay and Buffalo City  municipalities  this week. COPE MP… March 30, 2011