Mzansi Magic and Ndalo Pictures in association with 4th Street Wines are looking for creative fashion designers who are going to shine as they proudly present South Africa’s first-ever version of Project Runway. Project Runway SA is looking for 12 South African fashion designers to compete against each other for their big break into the fashion industry. Just like the original hit reality show in the US, designers will be challenged to create garments restricted by time, materials, and theme, with designs judged by a panel. Previous Project Runway winners have been able to focus on fashion full-time, featured in numerous magazines, travelled the world showcasing their work, created their own collections and launched their own fashion lines. So if you can design and make your own creations, enter now on mzansimagic.tv. Only the most promising designers will be selected. Shortlisted designers will be interviewed telephonically. Those who make it through the telephonic interview stage will be required to pass a skills test and go for an on-camera interview.
Candidates who have been selected for on-camera interviews will be notified by April 2. The winner will get the opportunity to go to Paris Fashion Week in February next year to showcase as a pop-up. The winner’s designs will also be showcased in Edgars stores for three months. Entry criteria: Applications close at midnight on March 28. Sindi’s beautiful solutions showcased in the Bay INTERNATIONALLY recognised fashion designer Thula Sindi has been in the Bay showcasing his designs. Sindi, 32, who is celebrating 10 years in the business, showed off his signature item, the twist dress, at an East Cape Wool Week fashion and interior design exhibition… April 6, 2016 Makhetha-Kwinana will first show designs at PE fundraiser for motor neuron disease HER designs will be showcased on the runways of Milan – considered by many in the fashion industry as the pinnacle of design success. But Nelson Mandela Bay design guru Thabo MakhethaKwinana will first let Port Elizabeth see… November 30, 2015 Designer Paledi Segapo in PE Palse Homme menswear designer Paledi Segapo hopes Nelson Mandela Bay students will do more than wake up and smell the coffee when he judges their garments during the East Cape Derby at the Fairview Racecourse tomorrow. The Soweto-born entrepreneur, MBA graduate and fashion ambassador… May 12, 2017