Weeks of hard work will be put to test against upper-drawer opponents Two of the Bay’s best fighters will be heading to Cape Town this week to stake their claim in the Extreme Fighting Championship’s next event. Weeks of hard work will be put to the test when Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) fighters Chris Bright and Luthando Biko face their respective opponents at EFC 68, taking place at GrandWest on Saturday. Bright, 44, makes his much-anticipated return to the cage against American Dave “Pain Train” Mazany, while his teammate Biko looks to secure a hat-trick against Durban’s Warren “Wolverine” Richards. Wrapping up a six-week training camp at the Port Elizabeth Submission Fighting Academy (Pesfa) last week, Bright said his conditioning and all-round MMA game were better than ever. “This camp came after a lot of prep for a grappling competition in December, so we were working from a good base. “Biokineticist Kyale Boatwright has done an amazing job to get my old body feeling young again,” Bright said. “We have a specific game plan and have been hammering on that. “Mazany tries to tire out or panic his opponents, so conditioning is crucial, and I am in much better shape than I was for my last fight.” Bright knows his American opponent will be a tough challenge and considers him among the best in the lightweight division, but believes that is what makes this fight worth all the time and effort. And he is ignoring talks of a possible title shot after this fight. “In my head every fight is a title shot.” Pesfa teammate and one of Bright’s most promising students, Biko said he was very excited to be sharing a card with his mentor and friend. “It’s not every day I get to fight on the same night as a teammate, let alone my coach. I can’t wait!,” the Kwazakhele local said. Richards is a late replacement for Biko’s initial opponent, who withdrew. But the change did not faze Biko in the slightest. “The late change in opponent is irrelevant. This training camp improved every aspect of my skillset, as well as my conditioning. It was tough but I really enjoyed every minute of it, and I can’t wait to step back in the cage.” Biko, who lost his first outing as a professional fighter, has since racked up two consecutive wins, and a hat-trick could put him among the top contenders in the bantamweight division. “I am completely focusing on Richards. He is the one standing in my way right now. After this fight I will worry about who is next, but for now there is just this guy,” Biko said. The main card will be broadcast live on SABC3 from 9.30pm. A PORT Elizabeth fighter will be lacing up his gloves today to put months of hard work and training to the test when he steps into the ring at Africa’s biggest mixed martial arts showcase. Port Elizabeth Submission Fighting Academy’s Cameron Pritchard, 25, is the only fighter from the Eastern… May 7, 2015 Mixed martial arts ace returns after year-long, career-threatening injury hiatus After undergoing surgery that should have ended his professional fighting career, Port Elizabeth mixed martial artist Cameron Pritchard is heading back to the cage this weekend, with a title shot looming if he steps out victorious. The stage is set… November 10, 2016 City included in EFC fixtures for first time The wait is over for Nelson Mandela Bay fight fans as Africa’s biggest mixed martial arts promotion is set to make its way down to Port Elizabeth for the first time ever. The Extreme Fighting Championship (EFC) has released its list of… January 26, 2017