The Shoprite Group recalled its Farmer’s Deli red viennas on Friday. In a statement‚ the retail giant said it received a notification from an environmental health practitioner in the Winelands District of the Western Cape that listeria monocytogenes had been identified “in an initial testing of a single batch of red viennas”. More tests were needed to confirm the presence of the bacteria and the results would be available only within five working days. All Farmer’s Deli red and smoked viennas had been removed from the shelves as a precautionary measure. “Listeria monocytogenes is not the same as listeria ST6‚ which was linked by the Department of Health to fatal listeriosis cases that occurred in South Africa‚” the statement read. “The listeria monocytogenes was only found in a single batch (BB 18 March B5/N) and is not linked to the recent listeria ST6 recall related to Enterprise Foods.” Reuters reported on Thursday that Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi is concerned there could be other infections in the southern African region. It has been confirmed that the listeria outbreak – the worst in history – has killed more than 180 people in South Africa since January 2017. Several African nations have stopped importing processed meat from South Africa. Shoprite‚ which has stores in 14 other African countries‚ said customers could return Farmer’s Deli 500g and 1kg red and smoked viennas products for a refund. If you have any of the polony or sausage products named by the health ministry as possible culprits in South Africa’s listeriosis outbreak - especially if they’re opened - remove them from your fridge immediately to avoid contaminating other food. And yes‚ you will be refunded for them‚ even if… March 4, 2018 Tiger Brands said on Friday it was doing everything possible to get to the root cause of the listeria bacterium at its Enterprise Foods’ Limpopo facility. “We acknowledge and recognise that we are dealing with a national crisis which has impacted customers‚ consumers and the industry. Tiger Brands wants to… March 9, 2018 New infections bring number of confirmed cases in SA to 717 A further 167 people have contracted deadly listeriosis in the past month‚ bringing the total number of confirmed cases in South Africa to 717. It is the worst documented listeriosis outbreak in global history, according to food scientists. In… January 8, 2018