With a staggering 51% increase in 2016/17 Easter road fatalities in South Africa, and many taking to the roads again this weekend, it is important for motorists to be vigilant. According to insurance company Dialdirect during the 2017 Easter holidays, 235 people died on South African roads, compared to the 2016 total of 156. The Northern Cape saw the steepest increase at 175%, followed by KwaZulu Natal at 111% and Gauteng and the Western Cape at 58% and 57% respectively. All other provinces saw an increase of between 17% and 50%, with the Free State being the only province with a decrease of 27%. “The true tragedy here is that the bulk of these deaths could have been avoided if motorists took road safety more seriously,” says Warwick Scott-Rodger, executive head of Dialdirect. “All too often, the price is higher than a damaged or written off vehicle.” According to JMPD Chief Superintendent, Wayne Minnaar: “The main offenses that motorists commit which cause accidents include speeding, dangerous overtaking and ignoring of white lines, drunken driving, reckless driving, disregarding stop signs and red traffic lights, turning in face of oncoming traffic, entering the road in an unsafe manner, and turning from the wrong lane.” Dialdirect has put together a list of practical tips to assist you drive right and avoid becoming a statistic this Easter weekend: Before you take to the road, be sure to check your vehicle’s lights, windows and wipers, wheels and tyres, brakes, suspension, battery, belts and chains, cooling system, filters and fluids, safety and warning equipment and child car seats. Travel safely! AUTHORITIES are gearing up for the Easter Weekend with roadblocks and operations being launched across the province. Eastern Cape MEC for Transport, Safety and Liaison, Weziwe Tikana appealed to all road users to exercise extra caution on the road.  The police have already launched Operation Paseka which aimed to stop criminals… April 1, 2015 Road deaths in the Eastern Cape – as well as the rest of the country – over the Easter holiday period increased compared with last year, despite the efforts of safety campaigns to reduce the toll. Preliminary road accident figures for the Easter break were revealed yesterday by Transport Minister… April 22, 2017 The South African National Roads Agency Ltd (SANRAL) has issued a notice warning road users of travel delays on the N2 between Grahamstown and Fish River. A stop-and-go section will be implemented between the two towns from 9 February 2016, and is planned to be removed on 18 March 2016,… February 10, 2016