A gang of 12 robbers raided the OK Furniture Store in the Motherwell Shopping Complex during a midday heist on Sunday. According to police, the gang – who were armed with guns – raided the store while several customers and staff were inside. The gang is thought to be the same group that shot at a police officer during a robbery at Swartkops Spar and Tops at Spar on Friday evening. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said that when the gunmen entered the OK Furniture Store they ushered several customers and staff to the back of the shop. “While some of the robbers held staff and customers at gunpoint, the other robbers were ransacking the shop.All the customers were also robbed during the incident,” he said. “A total of 10 cellphones were stolen from customers and another 70 cellphones, that were on display in the store, were also taken. There were also eight 8 laptops and tablets taken as well as a Plasma television sets and some money,” he added. No one was injured in the robbery. The Swartkops robbery on Friday saw both Spar and Tops at Spar robbed in less than three 3 minutes and, according to staff, appeared to be “well organised”. Beetge said that this is thought to be the same group police have been searching for over the weekend. “Detectives have been working around the clock and spent the entire weekend following up leads and taking suspects in for questioning.” ,” he added. No arrests have been made. Two cases of armed robbery and a case of attempted murder – related to the police officer being shot at – are being investigated. Estelle Ellis FIVE men and an employee of furniture and appliance store Barnetts near Pier 14 in North End were arrested late yesterday afternoon after customers were terrorised and robbed inside the store. Port Elizabeth's Warrant Officer Alwin Labans said at about 4.45pm, shortly before closing time, three men entered… February 4, 2014 Wanted suspect held for separate attack on policemen A man wanted for allegedly shooting at the police in Port Elizabeth was arrested yesterday, while a task team is working around the clock to track down a gang which attacked another policeman in a separate incident. A manhunt, involving detectives and… March 12, 2018 One gunman was killed, a store employee was wounded and another five robbery gang suspects escaped by posing as shop employees in what police have described as a movie-style hostage drama at a supermarket in Pellsrus, Jeffreys Bay late last night. Police spent two hours attempting to gain access to… July 30, 2016