The National Consumer Commission is in the final stages of its investigation into the Ford Kuga debacle, which saw several vehicles go up in flames‚ and plans to wrap up its probe by the end of this month‚ commissioner Ebrahim Mohamed said yesterday. The target date for completing the report and having it finally approved is the end of April. The fires affected the Ford Kuga 1.6 Ecoboost and the commission’s first response was to initiate a product recall under the Consumer Protection Act. An arrangement has been made between the commission and the attorneys of Ford Motor Company of SA (FMCSA) that the commission will provide them with draft findings and recommendations prior to the commission approving the final report‚ Mohamed told parliament’s trade and industry portfolio committee. He said the overarching objective of the investigation was to establish whether FMCSA or its sister companies in Spain and the US had perhaps committed a “prohibited conduct” by supplying the Ford Kuga 1.6 Ecoboost into the South African market. There were allegations that the cars were recalled in other markets and then dumped in SA and the commission had looked into these claims.The investigation would also look into the origin of these vehicles sent to South Africa. FMCSA has informed the commission that all the vehicles were manufactured in Spain. Mohamed said the probe also sought to determine whether the complainants had recourse within the Consumer Protection Act. The complainants were those whose cars had caught fire or had defects; who claimed economic loss as a result of the alleged drop in the value of their motor vehicles; and consumers who were afraid that their lives and safety were at stake and therefore did not wish to drive the Ford Kugas. Ford SA has agreed to inspect every one of the Kuga family SUVs it’s sold in South Africa‚ the National Consumer Commission (NCC) said on Tuesday. This follows a meeting between the embattled car maker and the commission last week after more than Kugas caught fire this year. “The company… December 20, 2016 Ford Kuga fire victims are furious with the National Consumer Commission over the silence around its investigation into the global car manufacturer. But‚ says the commission‚ the silence is to ensure that the investigation is thorough and that Ford does not get away with any possible infringements. Between January and… May 11, 2017 UP IN SMOKE: A timeline of Ford Kuga's rise to flame  Ford was warned for at least a year that its Kuga SUV had potentially deadly problems – but appears not to have acted on the alarm bells. At least 47 Kugas have caught alight and one person has died… January 16, 2017