Only hours after Chippa United parted ways with their head coach Teboho Moloi, club boss Siviwe Mpengesi announced the appointment of Vladislav Herić as his replacement with immediate effect. Herić returns to Chippa after a brief five-month stay with the Chilli Boys during the 2013-2014 Premier Soccer League season. “We belive he (Herić) is the right man for the job,” Mpengesi said. “We were looking for a coach who understands the culture of the club, a coach with experience and someone who will be a father figure to the players, among other things and Herić ticked all boxes. “He won us promotion back in 2014 with four games to go. An experienced mentor, we welcome him back to the blue and white of Chippa United. “We still believe that we can finish in a respectable position this season and we will give our best shot in the Nedbank Cup. “Heric will be given all the support he needs to take the club forward.” The 50-year-old Serbian has coached among others Bay United, Maritzburg United, Black Leopards, and was recently part of the Royal Eagles technical team. Heric will start working with the Port Elizabeth-based side on Monday in preparation for the Nedbank Cup clash away to Free State Stars next weekend. ROGER Sikhakhane will make yet another return as Chippa United’s head coach for the coming Premier Soccer League season. The club’s chief operating officer, Lukhanyo Mzinzi, yesterday confirmed that Sikhakhane would replace German Ernst Middendorp for one season. It will be Sikhakhane’s third run as the club’s head coach despite… June 26, 2015 Chippa United boss Siviwe “Chippa” Mpengesi has vowed not to put any pressure on his players and coach this season in terms of where he would like to see the team finish on the Premier Soccer League log. After Chippa survived relegation early last season, the vocal Mpengesi sent out… July 19, 2016 I DON'T know how far negotiations are between the Bay and Chippa Mpengesi, owner of Chippa United football club. Have you done your homework properly? Do you know Mpengesi? He has just recently once again fired the coach, Vladislav Heric, the man who helped his team win promotion back to… May 13, 2014