We are gearing up for the inaugural The Herald Easter on the Farm at Holmeleigh Farmyard next Saturday. Gates open at 9am. We are expecting a great turnout, so to alleviate congestion, MasterCars on Moffett will provide a shuttle service. There will be entertainment for the whole family, including live music, giveaways, food trucks, rides for the kids – and that visit from the Easter bunny who will leave special treats for the children to enjoy Easter egg hunts. The hunts will start at 10am. There will also be an Easter bonnet parade at 2.30pm – so kids, get creative with those hats and you could win amazing prizes! There is a Cape St Francis Resort family getaway prize up for grabs. The entry form is in The Herald daily leading up to the event. The entry box will be next to the stage at the event. Included in our programme this year is bubble soccer. It’s like playing regular soccer, except you are encased in an inflatable torus, similar to a zorb ball, which covers the player’s upper body and head. Players compete in a hilarious way of bumping their opponents in an attempt to gain possession of the ball and score a goal. The bubble soccer is for free on the day. So bring your family and friends and come have a ball with us! Tickets cost R50 a person, and children four and under get in free. To avoid having to queue, buy your tickets online at www.quicket.co.za Visit The Herald’s Facebook page and join The Herald’s Easter on the Farm event in our events section for more information and regular updates. Easter is just around the corner and to celebrate The Herald is having a family fun day at Holmeleigh Farmyard in Kragga Kamma on March 24. The inaugural Herald Easter on the Farm will have an action-packed kids’ zone with inflatables, rides, games and face-painting. There will also be several… February 28, 2018 Ho, ho, ho! Father Christmas is coming to Holmeleigh Farmyard on Saturday December 16 as a special guest at our first The Herald Christmas on the Farm. The Herald has once again teamed up with the farm in Kragga Kamma for a fun-filled afternoon and evening for the whole family.… November 2, 2017 Ho! Ho! Ho! Santa treat for the little ones at Holmeleigh Farmyard, with food and entertainment too Ho, ho, ho! Father Christmas and his helpers are coming to Holmeleigh Farmyard tomorrow as special guests at The Herald Christmas on the Farm. Gates open at 3pm for a fun-filled afternoon and… December 15, 2017