  Former president Jacob Zuma will appear in court for corruption charges on April 6. The National Prosecuting Authority has been cautious about commenting on the time and place for Zuma’s Court appearance‚ but sources close to the case have told TimesLIVE that the date has been confirmed by the state and defence. A summons is expected to be issued for Zuma’s appearance on Monday. The former head of state will face 16 charges‚ including fraud‚ corruption and racketeering. It is unclear exactly which court Zuma will appear in. Zuma’s legal team is expected to challenge prosecuting boss Shaun Abrahams’ decision to proceed with the case against him in the coming days. But he’s also embroiled in a legal battle over whether the state should continue to fund his defence. – TimesLIVE  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Shaun Abrahams believes that they will succeed in the prosecution of former president Jacob Zuma on 16 charges of racketeering‚ money laundering‚ fraud and corruption in relation to the multi-billion rand arms deal. On Friday‚ Abrahams announced that Zuma will soon have his… March 16, 2018 The decision to fund former president Jacob Zuma’s legal battle was taken because the crimes he stands accused of were “of public import”‚ President Cyril Ramaphosa has said. Ramaphosa said the Presidency believed at the time of concluding the 2006 "fees deal" with Zuma that the crimes he was accused… March 23, 2018 President Jacob Zuma once again used the late hours of the night to make a major move – this time submitting representations to the National Prosecuting Authority on why he should not face fraud and corruption charges – with less than three hours to go before the deadline expired. According… February 1, 2018