Mmusi Maimane and James Selfe have been nominated unopposed respectively as the candidates for the positions of leader and federal council chairperson of the Democratic Alliance. However‚ it will be a three-horse race between incumbent and Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip‚ Annelie Lotriet and Tshwane mayor Solly Msimanga for the position of federal chairperson. The position of federal youth leader will be contested by Lincoln Machaba‚ Luyolo Mphithi‚ Katlego Clement Peterson‚ and Xabiso Nicholas Nyati. The nominations‚ which closed on Friday‚ were announced on Sunday ahead of the DA’s federal congress which is set to take place on April 7 and 8 in Tshwane. DA federal congress chief electoral officer Anchen Dreyer said the congress would be the largest in the history of the party‚ drawing over 2‚000 delegates from all parts of the country‚ and would also “be reflective of the fact that the DA is the most diverse party in South Africa”. “The DA has exponentially grown since 2015‚ when it had just over 1‚200 delegates‚” she said. She added that the nomination process was the first step towards electing leadership that would take the party through the campaign season‚ to 2019 and beyond. – TimesLIVE. The next 28 days are set to be among the most trying for Athol Trollip. Not only is his mayorship in Nelson Mandela Bay under threat, as the EFF pushes to lead a vote of no confidence against him, he will also be fighting to retain his position as federal… March 10, 2018 African National Congress (ANC) councillors in Tshwane appeared to have accepted defeat. Before Friday’s council sitting commenced‚ they headed straight to the opposition benches the Democratic Alliance (DA) used to occupy before the local government elections. Members were set to vote on the mayor and speaker of council at noon.… August 19, 2016 DA leader visits to smooth waters and confirm shaky coalition still on track Although the leadership of Nelson Mandela Bay does not plan to fill the vacant deputy executive mayor position, the coalition has recommitted to putting service delivery above “personalities and people”. This is according to DA leader Mmusi… October 17, 2017