President Emmerson Mnangagwa is gradually losing patience with his former boss Robert Mugabe as the latter becomes visible once again in politics – a few months before high-stakes general elections. Mnangagwa‚ a former right hand man of Mugabe since the late 1970s‚ ascended to power with military assistance‚ forcing Mugabe to resign last year in November. After the coup Mugabe was confined to private life shuttling between his rural home in Zvimba and private residence in Harare’s richest suburb‚ Borrowdale. This is apart from going to Singapore in December to see his daughter‚ Bona‚ and son-in-law‚ Simba Chikore‚ who were expecting a baby‚ and also to undergo his routine medical check-ups. But last month Mugabe met with African Union Commission chairman Moussa Faki and told him that he was toppled via a coup. Since then he has openly opposed the Mnangagwa presidency‚ raising concern that the upcoming elections might not be free and fair. What angered Mnangagwa this week is that Mugabe snubbed working with Zanu PF in its electoral campaign. Instead he is rallying behind a new formation called New Patriotic Front (NPF) and has also had meetings with other opposition leaders. Speaking at a Zanu PF meeting on Tuesday‚ Mnangagwa warned his former boss. “With the former president there is an issue. Currently we are not happy with what the media is saying. It is an issue we are examining‚” Mnangagwa told Zanu PF’s youth league. At the same rally‚ youth leader Pupurai Togarei said as the youth they would stop respecting Mugabe. “Can someone try and talk to Mugabe? He must withdraw his behaviour and be responsible. If he fails to respect the revolution‚ we will stop respecting him in future‚” he said before chanting anti Mugabe slogans. Because of his latest political choices‚ Mugabe during his birthday party on February 24 told close friends and relatives that he was being persecuted via his wife Grace who spent every night crying. On Wednesday‚ Mugabe made his first trip outside Zimbabwe this year and sources say he is in Pretoria. Unlike in the past when he would commandeer the national flag carrier Air Zimbabwe‚ Mugabe flew business class with at most 12 aides. In the past he would have traveled with a 70-strong entourage. “The suspicion within Zanu PF is that Mugabe is in South Africa to meet up with stakeholders involved with the NPF project. We understand NPF is seeking an alliance with some sections of the MDC T‚ [Joice] Mujuru’s National People’s Party (NPP) and other like-minded groups to dilute Zanu PF’s dominance‚” said a Zanu PF source. This week the NPF wrote to the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) informing the electoral body the party would be taking part in the general elections and so should also be included in programmes that involve political parties and the upcoming elections. – TimesLIVE Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has requested a meeting with his former boss‚ Robert Mugabe. The two former allies are set to meet for the first time since Mnangagwa ascended to power through military assistance. Mugabe said this to close family and friends at his private residence‚ "Blue Roof"‚ in Harare… February 26, 2018 Mid coup, Mugabe goes to cap University gratuates #Zimbabwe pic.twitter.com/z3mftsyYVC — Open Parly ZW (@OpenParlyZw) November 17, 2017 President Robert Mugabe attended a university graduation ceremony on Friday, making his first public appearance since military generals took control of Zimbabwe earlier this week. Wearing a blue and yellow academic gown… November 17, 2017 Special gazette lists perks for ‘retired’ Zimbabwe presidents Robert Mugabe may no longer be the Zimbabwean president‚ but he will be living like one. Mugabe, 93, was forced to resign last month after a temporary military takeover. Emmerson Mnangagwa, who had been sacked from his job as vice-president by Mugabe… December 29, 2017