Just four days after being fired as minister of public enterprise‚ Lynne Brown has resigned as ANC MP. Brown’s decision to quit as a member of the national assembly was announced by the office of ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu on Thursday. Brown is among several ministers who were axed from their position by President Cyril Ramaphosa in a cabinet reshuffle on Monday. As public enterprises minister‚ Brown had a controversial tenure as she became implicated in allegations of the mismanagement of Eskom and other parastatals such as Denel and Transnet that fell under her political leadership. Brown’s name had been mentioned in alleged capture of the state by the Gupta family. Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane recently found that the she lied to parliament when she told MPs Eskom had not made any payments to Gupta-linked company Trillian. Brown blamed former Eskom chief financial officer Anoj Singh for misleading her. “The office of the ANC chief whip confirms the resignation of former minister of Public Enterprises comrade Lynne Brown as a member of parliament effective February 27 2018. “Comrade Brown joined the National Assembly in 2014 and had previously served as a member of the Western Cape provincial legislature in various capacities from 1994 until 2014. “She has expressed her gratitude in having served the people of South Africa and thanked the ANC for having given her the opportunity to do so. “We are confident that she will continue serving the country and our movement in other capacities in future. We wish her well‚” said the statement from Mthembu’s office. – TimesLIVE The public protector has found Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown guilty of misleading Parliament and given President Cyril Ramaphosa 14 days to take action against her. The finding was revealed by DA MP Natasha Mazzone on Thursday evening. Mazzone had approached the public protector's office about a reply Brown had… February 23, 2018 THERE is no power crisis in South Africa, the ANC says. During a snap debate on Eskom yesterday, two ANC MPs played down recent events related to the power utility, including three days of rolling blackouts, the collapse of a coal silo at Majuba power station and poor financial results.… November 28, 2014 Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown has insisted that she has not lied to parliament, after the ANC said her submission to the legislature on the reappointment of Eskom chief executive Brian Molefe amounted to perjury. Brown said she was ready to defend her stance on Molefe to the ANC. She… May 26, 2017