It could take Nelson Mandela Bay more than three decades to deal with its housing backlog if it continues building RDP houses at its current pace. It could take even longer if the masses of informal settlements sprouting around the city persist, adding to the already voluminous housing list. With a housing delivery backlog of 85 000 people registered for houses in the Bay, it is going to take a long time for government to catch up with the growing list of needs. The Eastern Cape Department of Human Settlements’ head of department, Gaster Sharpley, said: “Even with a delivery rate of an average of 3 000 houses a year in the metro, it will take more than 30 years. “But the metro is currently averaging at about 2 000 to 2 500 houses a year due to budget constraints. This means it will take well over 30 years to catch up”. The city is expected to only build 1 580 houses in the next financial year due to decreased budget allocations from the government. The cuts have been done to fund higher education. There are currently 76 informal settlements known to the city, but this figure is growing at an exponential rate, according to the metro’s human settlements portfolio head Nqaba Bhanga. At a human settlements committee meeting last week, Bhanga described the situation as “sharks” invading land. Some of the new informal settleevicting people since early last year,” Vena said. The councillor, who voted with the ANC on the motion, said the state should lead in allocating land to ensure it was done in an organised manner. “Nqaba [Bhanga] has shown he can’t provide houses for people and if they can’t do this, then at least give people serviced sites and this is where they’re failing,” Vena said. UDM councillor Mongameli Bobani said the municipality had an obligation to install services for residents living in shacks. “They must be given a dignified standard of living and buy buckets for our people and install electricity. “I don’t believe it’s that expensive if there is R2-million available to kick people out,” Bobani said. The municipality said there was serviced land available for the purpose of relocating families. “This is linked to the current human settlements sector plan,” city manager Johann Mettler said. “Areas 11 in Uitenhage, NU30 and NU12 in Motherwell are currently being serviced and are within a relocation plan,” Mettler said. Mettler said the city was planning to upgrade four informal settlements and service 3 000 sites with water, sanitation and roads in the current financial year. “In the 2018/2019 financial year, the NMBM plans to upgrade four more informal settlements and 2 500 sites with water, sanitation and roads,” he said. Catalytic projects in Nelson Mandela Bay may be delayed after the municipality refused to sign a memorandum of agreement with the Housing Development Agency (HDA) yesterday until certain conditions were met. The signing of agreements is the next step towards the success of several mega-housing projects in the city. Catalytic… September 16, 2017 Twelve senior state officials seconded to rescue troubled Bay human settlements department A MAJOR shake-up of Nelson Mandela Bay’s troubled housing department is under way. A team of 12 national bureaucrats has been sent to the metro to clean up what has for several years been a seemingly untouchable department… September 18, 2015 A TOTAL of 2 500 RDP houses are to be built and 665 shoddily built ones repaired in Nelson Mandela Bay this financial year. This is according to Eastern Cape Department of Human Settlements head Gaster Sharpley. He said the Housing Development Agency (HDA) would build about 1 222 of… September 1, 2015