Disposal of any products potentially linked to listeria must be done very carefully‚ says Johan van den Berg‚ managing director of waste management company Averda South Africa. Here are his top tips for consumers: – Don’t throw anything away If contaminated meat gets mixed with general refuse it puts the lives of waste pickers at risk. There are between 60 000 and 90 000 waste pickers in South Africa. These people provide a huge benefit to sustainability and the economy by diverting recyclable materials from disposal by landfill. – Any products that might be contaminated must be returned to the store from which they were purchased. Retailers must work in partnership with the Department of Health and waste management providers to ensure that these items are safely disposed of. Reputable waste management companies are well placed to provide guidance around the appropriate treatment and disposal requirements for such hazardous waste. – To ensure that the Listeriosis pathogen is destroyed‚ contaminated meat products will need to be incinerated and then disposed of at a hazardous waste facility. The reason for this is that these facilities have a number of measures in place to protect people’s health and the environment.   Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. Polony and products from the Enterprise factory in Polokwane‚ Limpopo‚ are the source of the world’s largest outbreak of listeria. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi made the announcement on Sunday afternoon. More than 16 environmental samples from the Enterprise Polokwane factory tested positive for the listeriosis monocytogenes strain ST 6. The… March 4, 2018 With health minister Aaron Motsoaledi revealing the source of the unique strain of listeria that has caused the world’s biggest documented listeriosis outbreak‚ here’s what you need to know: 1. Enterprise Foods' Polokwane factory has a serious problem with food safety. Inspectors from the municipality‚ department of health and agriculture… March 5, 2018 If you have any of the polony or sausage products named by the health ministry as possible culprits in South Africa’s listeriosis outbreak - especially if they’re opened - remove them from your fridge immediately to avoid contaminating other food. And yes‚ you will be refunded for them‚ even if… March 4, 2018