The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) Port Alfred is heading a rescue operation on the Fish River involving seven paddlers who have been cut off by a pod of hippos and two members of the paddling group who have gone missing. On Sunday, the NSRI were alerted by friends and family of the nine paddlers that the group, consisting of men and women, was overdue. A private aircraft volunteered to assist in an initial search and the paddlers’ location was found about 10km upstream. NSRI said in a statement  that communication has been established with a group of seven paddlers and they appeared to be safe but were cut off from continuing downstream by a pod of hippos. Two paddlers who ventured off to seek help during the night had not returned and were still missing. The police were alerted and the SA Air Force has also been placed on alert while NSRI and emergency services were investigating to determine the best way to extract the paddlers and to launch a search for the two missing men. This is a developing story. A Pretoria man told his rescuers of being knocked of his surf-ski by what was thought to be a 4m great white shark on Monday morning. The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) said its Plettenberg Bay duty crew received “a request for assistance from three paddlers… paddling behind the breaker line… December 19, 2016 A paddle-skier, who had been reported missing at Pringle Bay, interrupted his Christmas festivities in order to alert authorities that he was in fact safe and sound, the NSRI on Friday. "A paddle-skier who was suspected to be missing at Pringle Bay on Saturday, 20th December, has come forward after… December 26, 2014 People must heed the closure of southern Cape beaches because of shark sightings, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) urged yesterday. Municipal authorities have closed beaches between Maoli Beach‚ Sedgefield and Brenton-on-Sea because many sharks have been spotted. The closures had taken effect from Tuesday, NSRI Knysna station commander Jerome… December 29, 2016