As heavy rains caused havoc on Gauteng roads‚ causing sinkholes and power outages‚ officials have warned motorists to avoid driving through flooded roads. A similar warning was reportedly issued in Lesotho by their meteorological services. But a video doing the rounds on social media showed that one taxi driver ignored this warning‚ driving his taxi straight into the water.  It seems people who were stranded on the one side of the river bank had anticipated that the taxi may not make it to the other side as a recording of the taxi’s attempt starts even before the taxi starts moving. The two-minute-long video‚ which has been doing the rounds on social media‚ shows the taxi driving on what seems like a low-lying bridge and then all of a sudden‚ it topples into the water on its side. Seconds later‚ passengers from the taxi are seen in the fast moving waters as the person taking the video shrieks‚ calling on those on the other side of the flooded river bank to catch those who are now being washed away by the water. Lesotho radio presenter Thuso Mosabala took to his social media page to say the incident happened at Thaba Tseka. He was said it was unclear whether there had been any fatalities in the incident. War has been declared on online taxi service Uber, with metered taxi operators intimidating drivers and passengers and threatening to slow traffic nationally in protest. Yesterday, several Gauteng passengers were physically and verbally assaulted as they tried to catch Uber taxis in Johannesburg. The Times witnessed several drivers of metered… July 7, 2015 I WATCHED the budget speech and when the minister spoke about cutting government expenses, I thought he was speaking about the NMB traffic department. Why do we have a traffic department when you do not see traffic officers? I thought I saw a ghost last week when driving down Stanford… February 29, 2016 Nivashni Nair FAMILIES of the 22 people killed in last week's horror collision in KwaZulu-Natal believe the truck driver is also a victim. Sanele Goodness May, 23, of Swaziland, has been charged with 22 counts of murder after the articulated truck he was driving wiped out a car and four… September 13, 2013