A disgraced ANC ward councillor will be hauled before the party’s integrity commission after being found guilty yesterday of fraud and money laundering – but this does not necessarily mean he will lose his job. Cutting a lonely figure in the dock of the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court, Bongo Nombiba, the ANC’ s Ward 20 councillor, was found guilty of fraud and money laundering, but acquitted on two charges of corruption. He had pleaded not guilty to all the charges. Passing judgment, magistrate Johannes Claassen said he had found Nombiba deliberately evasive and aggressive at times. “The accused was extremely evasive, to the extent that I had to warn him of the negative influence this would have.” Claassen said the two state witnesses had been clear on their evidence. “They stuck to their versions,” he said. Nombiba was arrested by the Hawks in December 2016 and charged with one count of fraud, two counts of corruption and one count of contravening the Prevention of Organised Crime Act. The court found Nombiba had facilitated a donation from the Ward 20 municipal discretionary fund for the Thulamangwane Community Project, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) caring for the elderly. Nombiba instructed the group to put the request in writing, but to not say how much they were asking for. The completed and signed request, dated September 15 2014, was directed to Nombiba in his capacity as the ward councillor, and then redirected to the then chief whip of council, Joy Seale. Nombiba motivated the request for a donation of R30 000. On November 4, the funds were paid by the municipality into the NGO’s Standard Bank account. Two days later, Nombiba told the NGO’s management the request had been approved. Nombiba then asked two of the NGO’s members to accompany him to the bank to confirm that the money had been deposited. Claassen said the state had proved Nombiba had duped the NGO members into handing over R20 000 of the R30 000 the municipality had paid into the account. Nombiba convinced the members to withdraw two amounts, R7 000 and R13 000, and hand the cash over to him. On both occasions he deposited the funds into his Absa bank account. Evidence before court proved that Nombiba deposited R6 500 into his account 14 minutes after R7 000 was withdrawn from the NGO’s account. Nombiba will be sentenced on April 26. He was released on R1 000 bail yesterday after previously being out on warning. City manager Johann Mettler said Nombiba’s sentence would determine his standing as a ward councillor in the metro. If he was sentenced to more than 12 months in prison without the option of a fine, he would automatically be relieved of his position, Mettler said. “If he receives a suspended sentence or less than a year in jail he can still be a councillor pending an investigation by the [municipality’s] rules and ethics committee,” he said. When informed about the merits of the case and that Nombiba had fraudulently acquired municipal funds, he said: “In that case, he will have a problem.” ANC spokesman Gift Ngqondi said: “As ANC it saddens us to see a councillor and activist enmeshed in fraudulent activity.” Ngqondi said it was important that justice prevailed without fear or favour and that no one, including members of the ANC, was above the law. “We expect public representatives to be upstanding citizens.” He said the ANC would wait for sentence to be passed to determine what would happen next. “We will await sentencing and will then follow due processes. “All members [who are guilty of wrongdoing] are subject to our integrity commission where they must explain themselves,” he said. Nelson Mandela Bay Ward 20 councillor Bongo Nombiba has been found guilty of fraud and money laundering in the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court. Nombiba was acquitted of two charges of corruption. He was arrested by the Hawks in 2016 and charged with fraud, corruption and contravening the Prevention of… March 9, 2018 ANC man accused of pocketing R20 000 from special metro fund A Nelson Mandela Bay ward councillor allegedly swindled the municipality out of R20 000, which was part of a donation to an organisation caring for the elderly. Ward 20 (Kwazakhele) ANC councillor Bongo Nombiba was arrested by the Hawks… December 13, 2016 A Port Elizabeth court was not big enough to accommodate the busload of ANC supporters dropped off yesterday to support Ward 20 councillor Bongo Nombiba when he appeared on a charge of fraud. Nombiba is accused of pocketing the bulk of the money meant for the Thulamangwane Community Project, a… January 27, 2017