Three stowaways have been admitted to hospital, one in a serious condition, after they were found hiding in the chimney of a ship that was due to leave the Port Elizabeth harbour on Monday afternoon. The Tanzanians, aged between 28 and 33, are believed to have boarded the liquefied petroleum gas tanker, Azeri Gas, during the early hours. They were caught during a standard stowaway search aboard the vessel before departure. Officials confirmed that the vessel docked on Sunday afternoon from Madagascar and was preparing to depart for Saldanha Bay on Monday. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the three men had entered the secured section at about 1.15am and managed to board the vessel. “The CCTV cameras picked them up boarding the ship but this was only reviewed after the men had been caught,” she said. “The ship was preparing to depart which is why the engines were on. This in turn led to the three men inhaling fumes from the engine.” Naidu said the men would be kept under police guard while receiving treatment. She said it was unclear where they had come from and if they were in the country illegally. Police would only be able to question them after they had been declared medically fit, she said. Cindy Preller A CHINESE refrigerated cargo ship will be leaving South African waters today after a crewman died while the ship was outside Port Elizabeth harbour at the weekend. National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) Port Elizabeth station commander Ian Gray said the crew member, whose name is being withheld until… January 30, 2014 Chaos erupted when a 280m container ship transporting hazardous material, including paint and gas, was forced to dock in Port Elizabeth after a fire broke out on board. The alarm was raised when the cargo vessel, the APL Austria, made a distress call for assistance to the Maritime Rescue Coordination… February 14, 2017 A fisherman was fatally stabbed during a brawl aboard a vessel that was docked in the Port Elizabeth harbour. It is believed the vessel – from Mossel Bay – had been docked in the harbour since December and was preparing to depart on Monday when the incident occurred. Metro EMS… February 12, 2018