 The year was 1607 and the British East India Company ship the Red Dragon had lain becalmed off the East coast of southern Africa for who knows how long. The vessel rendered motionless for lack of wind, its crew must have been getting rather frustrated and bored. One wonders who the Shakespeare lover was who suggested they stage Hamlet as a diversion. “The same play is reputed to have been staged at Fort Frederick in 1799,” Port Elizabeth photographer and historian Ivor Markman said. These are just some of the gems of the city’s theatrical past unearthed by the former Weekend Post and Herald photographer, who spent many months trawling dusty archives and conducting interviews in preparation for his new exhibition, Bards of the Bay. The exhibition opened at the PE Opera House on Monday night and is linked to the venue’s 125th birthday celebrations. It covers all aspects of theatre and entertainment from the very early years. “Although I’d written about different aspects of theatre before, such as interviews with Athol Fugard, John Kani and Nomhle Nkonyeni, I had never done a comprehensive history of Port Elizabeth theatre before,” Markman said. He had uncovered quite a bit of related history while researching his former 100 Years Ago column for The Herald and fortunately had kept copies of the complete series. He also conducted interviews with local stage personalities, among other sources: “The help I received from them was absolutely fantastic, especially Carol Victor, The Herald archives, Bayworld, Robin Williams, Nomhle Nkonyeni, Rose Cowpar, Marelize Booysen Barnard and Emercia de Lange”. “Although it is acknowledged the indigenous people acted out dances and other rituals before the arrival of the settlers, this did not quite fall into the definition of theatre with regard to this exhibition,” he said. Many venues for the performing arts have come and gone, first of which was the Lyceum in Staines Street, opened by the Port Elizabeth Dramatic Society in 1840. This was followed by the Commercial Hall in 1843 with the first public theatrical performance presented by the PE Dramatic Society. The Alexander Theatre and Opera House were opened on December 1 1892 by then Mayor John McIlwraith and, in 1901, the Loubser Hall (today the Little Theatre off Athol Fugard Terrace) was built, Markman said. Though Mannville in St George’s Park is considered the Bay’s premier outdoor theatre, the first such venue was actually in Happy Valley, he said. “John Duff and his Vaudevillians performed at the opening of the Happy Valley Theatre in January 1938.” The Port Elizabeth Musical and Dramatic Society was founded in the basement of City Hall in October 1945, when a group of musical theatre enthusiasts decided to present shows away from the Savoy operettas. “The name was quickly abbreviated to Pemads and it’s been known as such ever since,” he said. The PE Afrikaanse Amateur Toneelgeselskap, Peaat, was founded in March 1951. Like Pemads and the PE Gilbert & Sullivan Society established in 1932 it has continued a proud legacy to this day. The revamped Opera House was officially re-opened in 1967, with the Capab Ballet Company performing Swan Lake, Markman said. And the foundation stone for the new PE Gilbert & Sullivan Society and Theatre Guild rehearsal hall was laid in Adcockvale two years later, in August 1969. Markman used original programme covers as his homage to the countless actors, producers, directors and crew. Apartheid had an enormously detrimental effect on how people were allowed to gather, including for the purposes of enjoying arts and entertainment. The best facilities were reserved for whites, and separate entrances and seating were the norm. But that did not prevent South Africa’s “theatre of resistance”, as driven by the likes of the Bay’s famous sons Fugard and Kani, from spreading around the globe and amplifying pressure on the regime back home. “The first all-African jazz musical in South Africa, King Kong, was staged at the Feather Market Hall on June 1 1955,” Markman said. “All races were allowed to see the play but had to be seated in different sections of the hall. The play had a cast of 65 people and included Miriam Makeba.” Shanty Town Revue was staged in the Crispin Hall at the bottom of Mount Road in 1959. “Produced by Stanley Nathan, presented by Norman Ntshinga with musical director Mike Ngxokolo, it was the first all-African musical production in PE and received rave reviews.” Fugard moved here in 1956 and founded the Circle Players, a small, mixed-race drama group. “Ntshinga and Ngxolo, along with Welcome Duru, Fats Bookholane and Mabel Magada, visited Fugard in 1962 and asked him to help them set up a drama group later known as the Serpent Players,” Markman said. “This visit led to the writing of a play called The Bus Stop.” The Reverend Mzwandile Maqina wrote a popular township play, Give Us this Day, which was staged in the Victory Hall in Walmer.
“The play was deliberately given a religious sounding title to fool the authorities, but the content was very political,” Markman said. It was also secretly staged in St Mary’s Cathedral, but in July 1977 was banned under the Publications Act. Bay photographer and historian Ivor Markman has an exhibition titled Bards of the Bay opening at the PE Opera House on Monday night. The exhibition provides a tantalising glimpse into the theatrical history of Port Elizabeth and is linked to the Opera House’s 125th birthday celebrations. It covers all aspects… March 23, 2018 Historians propose moving obelisk to city’s historic heart to honour one of PE’s founding fathers When John Paterson died in 1880, according to one historic account, it was said that he would not require a statue as Port Elizabeth was already his monument. One hundred and thirty-eight years on, there… March 1, 2018 Flamenco stars set for anniversary show A GROUP of dancers from Port Elizabeth are heading to the City of Gold to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Alianza Flamenca, a Spanish non-profit dance organisation with strong links to the Bay. The dancers from here include choreographer and dance teacher Clive Bain,… March 8, 2016