Mount Road police confiscated five firearms and arrested five people on gun-related charges at the weekend, cluster commander Major-General Thembisile Patekile said yesterday. He said four firearms were recovered in Helenvale and Gelvandale, where three people were arrested. The fourth person was arrested with an illegal firearm in Kabega Park. Patekile said another person was arrested in Walmer Township on Friday evening for the illegal possession of ammunition. Describing the arrests in the Helenvale and Gelvandale areas, Patekile said that at about 11am on Saturday, Gelvandale police were responding to a shooting incident in Helenvale when they saw two men running. Both were arrested and two revolvers were recovered. At 1.15pm, members of the Flying Squad responding to a complaint, found a 9mm pistol that was dropped by suspected gangsters running away from the police. “The community started hurling stones at police and the group. A 24-year-old gang affiliate was arrested with a 9mm firearm and ammunition. “He was detained on a charge of illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition,” Patekile said. The efforts of Port Elizabeth police have been applauded following a spate of arrests across the city this weekend. Over the last 48 hours, five firearms were recovered and five suspects arrested for illegal possession of the firearms and ammunition, police said on Sunday. Four of the firearms were recovered in Helenvale where three suspects were arrested while another… March 18, 2018 A Port Elizabeth man was arrested for firing a shotgun and revolver in the bushy section between Bridgemeade and Malabar on Sunday evening. Police were responding to calls from residents who said they heard several gunshots. Toufeeq Desai Dawood, 38, appeared in the Gelvandale Magistrate’s Court yesterday, where he was… January 16, 2018 Two stolen firearms were recovered and two suspected gangsters arrested in separate incidents yesterday (16/10/17). Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the first arrest was that of a 19-year-old man who was found carrying a 9mm firearm. “The arrest comes after Bethelsdorp police received a tip-off of someone walking in… October 17, 2017