Hello darlings, it is finally that time of the week when Skinnerbek brings you the latest on what residents of the Bay get up to. Amid the rest of the world’s excitement about Black Panther, last Friday night your girl finally got the chance to see the movie everyone’s been raving about. It probably would’ve been more fun to have watched it when it opened in cinemas since it was all everybody talked about that week, but I enjoyed it nonetheless. However, I am a bit disappointed that none of my “woke” buddies cared to discuss how horrible the Xhosa that had so many excited actually was in the movie. Yes, the movie did quite well as far as representation of the African culture is concerned, but more effort could have been put into learning the correct pronunciations. The characters made it sound like they had only one day to learn the language, which did put me off somewhat. But it did feel good to finally say “Wakanda forever” and actually know what I am talking about. After the movie, Skinners and her minions did a bit of club hopping, which proved to be a waste of time and energy as PE clubs seemed to be either empty or just dead. Was everyone at some private party to which my invitation got lost in the mail or something? Anyway, Wednesday night with Zakes Bantwini made up for the boring weekend. The Clap Your Hands hitmaker had us burning up the dance floor like it was not the middle of the week. I was, however, disappointed that I did not see him bust at least one dance move. I mean, what use is breathing the same air as Zakes Bantwini if he won’t pull a move or two? But thank heavens for Zakes, as Skinnerbek was starting to think she had got too old for the party scene. Sheesh! By the way, the girls seemed to love Gauteng Growth and Development Agency chief exec Saki Zamxaka who was also there. I’m just saying. Until next time, ciao! ACCLAIMED knitwear designer Laduma Ngxokolo – one of Port Elizabeth's most celebrated young exports – is back home this week to present his range of men's and women's clothing at a pop-up beachfront boutique. He launched a women's range of knitwear at SA Fashion Week in April and has since… September 3, 2014 Scandal actor Brighton Ngoma has emerged as a firm fan favourite to play the role of Trevor Noah in a upcoming film about the comedian's life‚ with Brighton saying it would be an honour to do so. Ever since Trevor revealed that his biography was being adapted into a film‚… February 23, 2018 Security has been jacked up at Port Elizabeth’s Walmer Park shopping centre ahead of the release of controversial film Inxeba – also known as The Wound – as several groups have threatened to picket and boycott its screening. The film depicts the traditional ritual of ukwaluka – a Xhosa tradition… February 2, 2018