Cape Town will not hit Day Zero in 2018‚ DA leader Mmusi Maimane said on Wednesday. “I am happy to announce today that provided we continue consuming water at current levels‚ and we receive decent winter rainfall this year‚ Day Zero will not occur in 2018. This means the taps will stay open in 2018‚” Maimane said at a media briefing at DA headquarters in Cape Town. “Residents have responded magnificently… Everyone played their part in this city-wide collective effort to keep the taps open‚” said Maimane‚ who led the DA’s #DefeatDayZero campaign after the party’s City of Cape Town caucus voted that mayor Patricia de Lille should be relieved of the responsibility. “The 60% reduction in consumption is an incredible achievement‚ and outperforms many other cities across the world which faced severe droughts – including Sao Paulo‚ Melbourne‚ and the state of California.” On Tuesday‚ deputy mayor Ian Neilson said the city council’s latest estimate of Day Zero was July 15. But last week he said it wasn’t likely to arrive before November. This is a developing story. Cape Town’s use of the term “Day Zero” came under fire from water and sanitation minister Nomvula Mokonyane in Parliament. The minister was briefing the portfolio committee on water and sanitation on Wednesday. She said that the drought would be declared a national disaster after information had been collected about… February 8, 2018 Day Zero for the drought stricken city of Cape Town has been pushed back to April 16, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said yesterday. The original date was April 12 when dam levels are expected to be at 13.5%. Dam levels are standing at 26.3%. Maimane thanked Capetonians for saving water… January 31, 2018 Don’t panic about water‚ DA leader Mmusi Maimane urged Capetonians on Tuesday‚ adding: “I really think we can defeat Day Zero.” Speaking on CapeTalk‚ Maimane reiterated the message politicians have started broadcasting as rising panic sets in about taps running dry. Shops have sold out of items such as bottled… January 30, 2018