Cape Town businessman Rob Packham‚ who is accused of murdering his wife Gill‚ was released on bail of R50 000 on Friday. He was released under strict conditions, including house arrest – unless he was at work. The body of Gill Packham‚ a secretary at Springfield Convent School in Wynberg‚ was found in the boot of her burnt-out BMW behind Diep River railway station three weeks ago after she went missing on February 22. Prosecutor Susan Galloway told the Wynberg Magistrate’s Court: “It is a serious crime that the accused is being charged with, but it is our submission that this alone is not enough reason to keep him in custody.” Packham’s lawyer Ben Mathewson told the court his client intended pleading not guilty. Packham started sobbing softly as Mathewson read out his affidavit which explained that his daughters needed him after losing their mother and that after losing his wife he equally needed his daughters. His daughters were present in court. He said his eldest daughter was 27 and lived in the UK, where she was a teacher. His younger daughter is 25 and recently graduated from Stellenbosch University. Galloway said strict bail conditions would ensure that he did not flee the country. Judge Goolam Bawa granted bail and ruled that Packham be placed under house arrest. The husband of murdered Cape Town secretary Gill Packham appeared briefly in the Wynberg Magistrate's Court on Monday. Rob Packham‚ 57‚ was arrested on Friday‚ about a week after Packham's charred body was discovered in the boot of her burnt out BMW. He is facing a charge of premeditated murder… March 5, 2018 A WEALTHY Cape Town business tycoon appeared in the Wynberg Magistrates Court on Thursday in connection with sodomising and sexually molesting his nephew over 10 years. The 53-year-old businessman from Bishopscourt‚ who is the managing director of two large family businesses‚ was arrested on Wednesday and charged with indecent assault.… May 8, 2015 THE man accused of attempting to murder his estranged wife will find out tomorrow when he will back in court to apply for bail. Martin Stevens, 47, will return to the Port Elizabeth Magistrates Court tomorrow, after his case was postponed yesterday. Stevens will appear to acquire a provisional date… April 7, 2016