Parents have suffered the unimaginable pain of losing children in horrific circumstances and those who survived face a life of blindness‚ deafness and cognitive disabilities . . .” Attorney Richard Spoor’s affidavit was lodged in the Johannesburg High Court on Thursday, in a class action lawsuit against Tiger Brands and its Enterprise division on behalf of those who contracted listeriosis‚ as well as the families of those who died. It is a heart-wrenching account of the impact on the lives that were forever changed by unwittingly eating contaminated processed meat. The legal case relies on the fact that the specific ST6 strain of listeria monocytogenes‚ which infected 91% of people who died‚ was found at the Tiger Brands Enterprise factory in Polokwane. Nearly 1 000 people have fallen ill and at least 183 people have died‚ 78 of them infants. Spoor and seasoned US-based food-safety attorney Bill Marler, of Marler Clark Attorneys, have used 10 applicants as representatives of the range of victims in the world’s biggest and most devastating listeriosis outbreak: The attorneys are seeking compensation for families or survivors who come forward and join the 70 affected people who form part of the class action so far. The summary of the some of the applicants’ stories makes for grim reading. It is claimed that in all 10 cases the listeriosis was contracted from eating ready-to-eat processed meats “originating from‚ or having passed through” the Enterprise meat processing facility at Polokwane between October 23‚ 2016 and March 4‚ 2018“. Applicant 1: MONTLHA NGOBENI A mother and SAPS emergency call centre operator based in Polokwane‚ Limpopo‚ who gave birth to a baby girl on December 22. The baby‚ having contracted listeriosis in the womb‚ from her mother‚ developed severe meningitis which has led to neurological complications‚ requiring two surgical interventions. Applicant 2: CLINTON CHINULA A bank official from Eldorado Park‚ Johannesburg ‚ father of a three-year-old child who contracted listeriosis after eating contaminated polony. Applicant 3: TEBOGO NTJANA A Midrand woman who contracted listeriosis while pregnant. As a result‚ she suffered a miscarriage . Applicant 4: PHILIP GEORGE COETZEE A former Danielskuil construction contractor whose father died in December last year. Applicant 5: PRESENDRIE GOVENDER A former business owner in Durban. She survived the infection but her baby was declared brain dead. Applicant 6: ANNELIZE LE ROUX A Winburg‚ Free State‚ farmer who fell ill while pregnant‚ along with her three minor children. Her baby was stillborn as a result. Applicant 7: XOLILE BOSCH An industrial cleaner from Polokwane‚ Limpopo‚ whose illness was aggravated and almost overlooked as result of another chronic medical condition‚ which also affects his digestive system. Applicant 8: SEBASTIAN LAURENT STEPHEN SCHWAGELEFAN MORITZ Moritz lives in Cambridge‚ England‚ and is the adopted son of Aldeth Olive Strutt‚ a 73-year-old pensioner who lives in a Cape Town retirement village. Moritz remains responsible for the care-giving of his adoptive mother. Strutt had to be hospitalised in intensive care to treat her listeria meningitis and sepsis. This infection has seen her health deteriorate significantly and has increased Moritz’s financial care obligations. Applicant 9: SHEREZE CURTIS An unemployed mother of four minor children‚ living in Giyani‚ Limpopo. She and her children had to be admitted to hospital. The two eldest children were treated for meningitis. Woman tells of her battle to beat deadly listeriosis After eating a single piece of polony between two slices of white bread Rina Adriaanse almost died, but it was only when she woke up in a hospital that the seriousness of listeriosis hit home. Adriaanse, 53, who lives in Windvogel… March 10, 2018 Three more people are known to have died of listeriosis‚ including a baby younger than a month old‚ bringing the death toll to 183. Of those who died‚ 79 are babies; seven are children aged between one and 14. The National Institute for Communicable Diseases (NICD) released the latest listeriosis… March 9, 2018 The death toll from the listeriosis outbreak could be much higher as countries in the Southern African Development Community (SADC) region do not have the testing and monitoring to detect listeriosis cases. The disease is not a notifiable disease across Southern African countries‚ meaning doctors are not reporting each case… March 16, 2018