Boko Haram Islamists who kidnapped 110 schoolgirls in Dapchi, northeast Nigeria, just over a month ago have so far returned 101 of the pupils to the town, the government said yesterday. Information Minister Lai Mohammed said they had been freed unconditionally. “No money changed hands,” he said in the capital, Abuja. “As of now, the number [of girls confirmed to have been released] has increased to 101,” he said Fatima Gremah, 13, who was among those released, said earlier: “Boko Haram said we were lucky we were young and also Muslims. “One of us who is a Christian has been left behind. They said they would keep her until she converted. “If she converts, they will release her. She is the only one among us left behind.” Nigeria’s President Muhammadu Buhari said last week the government had chosen negotiation rather than military force to secure the return of the Dapchi girls. Mohammed had earlier said their release was the result of back-channel efforts with the help of some friends of the country, without elaborating. Military operations in and around Dapchi had been suspended to ensure free passage of the girls and also to ensure that lives were not lost, he said. Nigeria’s presidency said separately the girls were in the custody of the country’s intelligence agency, the Department of State Services. The Dapchi kidnapping on February 19 brought back painful memories of a similar abduction in Chibok in April 2014, when more than 200 girls were taken. Aisha Alhaji Deri, a 16-year-old pupil who was among those kidnapped in Dapchi, said they had not been mistreated during their time in captivity. But she added: “When we were being taken away, five of us died on the way. “They brought us back this morning, dropped us outside the motor park and said we should all go home and not go to the military because they will claim to have rescued us.” Fatima Gremah and another girl, Amira Adamu Mohammed, 16, both also said they had not been mistreated and had been given food to cook. Fatima said they had been held on an island on Lake Chad, which is a stronghold for fighters loyal to Boko Haram factional leader Abu Mus’ab al-Barnawi. “They just told us on Saturday to get onto boats. We spent three days on the water before coming to shore, then they put us in vehicles and said they were taking us back home.” Parents said earlier the girls had been brought back to Dapchi in nine vehicles at about 8am. Some of the pupils headed to their homes in surrounding villages. Bashir Manzo, who heads a parents’ support group in Dapchi, said: “These girls were not accompanied by any security personnel. “Their abductors brought them, dropped them outside the school and left, without talking to anyone.” Parents in the remote town said the girls had been taken for medical check-ups after their ordeal. Boko Haram has used kidnapping as a weapon of war during its nearly nine-year insurgency, which has claimed at least 20 000 lives and made more than two million others homeless. The Islamic State (IS) group affiliate has not claimed responsibility for the abduction but, given the location, Barnawi and his fighters have been blamed. In August 2015, IS publicly backed Barnawi as leader of Boko Haram, or Islamic State West Africa Province, over Abubakar Shekau, whose supporters carried out the Chibok abduction. Analysts have attributed a financial motive to the Dapchi kidnapping given government ransom payments made to Boko Haram to secure the release of some of the captives from Chibok. On Tuesday, Amnesty International claimed the military had ignored repeated warnings about the movements of Boko Haram fighters before the kidnapping. The military rejected the allegation, calling it an outright falsehood. Similar claims were made about the hours leading up to the abduction of 219 mostly Christian girls from Chibok, which brought sustained worldwide attention on the conflict for the first time. The Chibok abduction also triggered a global campaign for their release, spearheaded by former US first lady Michelle Obama. There was no similar campaign for the Dapchi girls. Since May 2016, 107 Chibok girls have escaped, been found or been released as part of a government-brokered deal with the jihadists.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. Eighty-two of the more than 200 schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram in northeast Nigeria in 2014 arrived in Abuja yesterday to meet President Muhammadu Buhari after a prisoner swap deal secured their release. Presidency spokesman Femi Adesina said the schoolgirls from Chibok, in Borno state, were met at the capital's… May 8, 2017 Boko Haram hostages, some carrying babies, appear in new 20-minute video Islamist militants Boko Haram released a new video yesterday purporting to show at least 14 of the Chibok schoolgirls whose mass kidnapping nearly four years ago became a symbol of Nigeria’s brutal conflict. But despite a concerted global campaign… January 16, 2018 Nigerian Nobel laureate Wole Soyinka has described Boko Haram's leader as an "obscenity" who is likely to be incapable of dialogue, as the government considers opening talks with the Islamists over the more than 200 abducted schoolgirls. The winner of the 1986 Nobel Prize for Literature told AFP by phone… May 14, 2014