Neurosurgery on hold at Livingstone Hospital as department drags feet A vital piece of equipment used in neurosurgery at Livingstone Hospital has been broken since September, with the Department of Health refusing to replace it on an emergency basis. Health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the microscope used for neurosurgery was declared irreparable by the manufacturer. “The hospital submitted an urgent request to deviate from procurement rules to obtain a new microscope but this was not approved [by the health department],” he said. “We were then advised to rent the microscope. Suppliers, however, were not willing to rent us the equipment unless we rent to buy. “It is only now that they have given us the quotations, at R270 000 per month.” Kupelo said the equipment would be rented pending the finalisation of a new tender for the microscope. “We will have to wait for six to eight weeks for delivery,” he said. “Patients are being monitored and managed by specialists and medical officers with experience in neurosurgery.” Patients are also referred to Frere Hospital in East London or for emergency care in the private sector after the hospital lost its highly acclaimed and internationally trained neurosurgeon, Dr David Muballe, in January. Kupelo said he resigned for personal reasons and not because of the problems with equipment. He said emergency cases were being referred to private doctors, at state cost, or to Frere Hospital. Muballe’s post was readvertised. Kupelo said their waiting list was about two months or less after all the scans and tests were done. One of the patients waiting for surgery, Wendy Weyer-Henderson, 52, said the agony of waiting was unbearable. “I went to see my doctor because my left hand was getting stiff. I don’t have a medical aid. I went for a CAT scan and an MRI and was diagnosed with a herniated disk,” she said. “It is so bad that I have trouble driving and working.” Weyer-Henderson said while she was diagnosed in January, she could not get surgery because of the broken microscope. “The microscope has been broken since September. What must I do now? “If I go to Cape Town or Johannesburg, I will have to restart the process from scratch. “I can’t afford to be off work for months. I need my job. “My arm is getting progressively worse, but nobody can tell me what is going on. “When I am at the clinic, you can see how the patients are stressing. One woman has a brain tumour. She was also told to wait.” Patients at the hospital have also been unable to consistently access radiation treatment because the only machine at the hospital keeps breaking. Health activist Fikile Boyce said dependence on the public health system now meant putting yourself at risk. “Patients at public health facilities play a meaningful economic role. They deserve access to healthcare services as enshrined in the Bill of Rights of the constitution. “The officials entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring the equipment is working and with replacing faulty equipment must account for what they have done. “They have to be fired and charged when there are people who died because they could not access the necessary services.” Kupelo said: “The hospital takes full accountability for all patients referred to us. “We manage and advise patients and their families based on individual circumstances. “In the meantime, we are collaborating with our colleagues both in the private sector and in other hospitals in the Eastern and the Western Cape to do the best we can.” Kenyan doctor gives up plan to move to US to develop Livingstone facility He was going to settle in the US permanently, but a request to take care of just two more cases led brain surgeon Dr Kadhya David Muballe to open a whole new chapter for neurosurgery in Port… September 25, 2017 Security measures including CCTV cameras, guards, burglar bars and security gates with access control must be fitted to the new acute psychiatric ward at Port Elizabeth’s Provincial Hospital before patients can be moved there. The ward would also have isolation rooms, provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said yesterday. “We could… March 10, 2017 FIVE months after the R100-million oncology unit was opened to great fanfare at Livingstone Hospital, outpatients are complaining that their radiation treatment is being delayed because of a broken machine. Patients, who fear being victimised and asked not to be named, said they were not receiving radiation treatment, which was… October 21, 2014