It is all systems go for voter registration weekend in Nelson Mandela Bay. This is according to the Electoral Commission’s Crosby Bacela, who said that all 254 voting stations across the metro’s 60 wards were secured and ready to take on new voters. “This is an effort by the IEC following the 2016 constitutional court decision encouraging us to have addresses on the voters’ roll. By June this year, we have to report back to the courts to show our progress,” Bacela said. This is in preparation for next year’s general elections. The registration weekend allows registered voters whose addresses are not on the voters’ roll to provide the information, and assists new voters to register, and those who have recently moved to reregister in their correct voting districts. Chief electoral officer Sy Mamabolo revealed that despite its best efforts to collect the addresses of voters, the Electoral Commission did not have addresses for 2.8 million voters. “The voters’ roll is a fundamental safeguard for free and fair elections. “It is an instrument for facilitating electoral participation, which is placed at the disposal of political parties for campaign purposes,” Mamabolo said. Making sure people come out and register, DA leader Mmusi Maimane will be in the Bay tomorrow. Maimane will kick-start the day at Zanokhanyo Educare Centre, in KwaDwesi, then head to the City Hall to assist a first-time voter, before ending his trip at the Chatty Community Hall. Maimane will be accompanied by mayor Athol Trollip and DA provincial leader Nqaba Bhanga. EFF councillor Zilindile Vena said their presence would be felt across the metro as party agents would be present at all voting stations making sure that people were registered. The ANC could not confirm its plans. To register, voters must bring either their green-coded ID book, a smart ID card or a TIC (temporary issuance certificate). Voting stations are open from 8am to 5pm. The Electoral Act did not require the Electoral Commission of SA (IEC) to go and find addresses of people who were registered on the voters’ roll before December 2003‚ the Constitutional Court heard on Monday. The commission made this submission as it applied for leave to appeal against a judgment… May 9, 2016 IT is all systems go for final voter registration across the Eastern Cape this weekend. IEC provincial electoral officer Thamsanqa Mraji said an additional 21 voting stations would be open in the province, adding to the 4 678 that were open during the first registration weekend drive. President Jacob Zuma… April 8, 2016 TODAY and tomorrow are the final days for eligible voters to register and update their address details. President Jacob Zuma made an important announcement this week when he declared August 3 the municipal election day. There are 22 617 voting stations nationwide which will open between 8am and 5pm today… April 9, 2016