As Facebook reels from the scandal over hijacked personal data, a movement to quit it has gathered momentum, getting a boost from a high-profile co-founder of the WhatsApp messaging service acquired by the huge social network in 2014. “It is time. #deletefacebook,” Brian Acton said in a tweet, using the hashtag protesting the handling of the crisis by the world’s biggest social network. The WhatsApp co-founder, who now works at rival messaging application Signal, posted the comment amid a growing uproar over revelations that Facebook data was harvested by a British political consulting firm linked to Donald Trump’s presidential campaign. “Delete and forget. It’s time to care about privacy,” he said. Several websites offered tips on how to quit Facebook, while noting that the process was more complicated than it appeared. Facebook offers the option to “deactivate” an account for users who want to take a break or to “delete” the account entirely. But Facebook noted that some data such as posts on friends’ timelines might remain in the system even after an account was deleted. And longtime Facebook users could face complications on dealing with log-ins and authorisations to other websites and apps through the social network. The website The Verge published a guide to deletion, advising users to download a copy of all personal data including photos and posts before quitting. The website noted that it could take up to 90 days to fully delete an account, and data might be inaccessible during that period. Users may also face choices on what to do about other Facebookowned properties such as Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. It was unclear how many users were following through on plans to quit Facebook, which has more than two billion users worldwide. But Roger McNamee, an early investor in Facebook, said the social network was losing its users’ trust. “The issue is a callous disregard for the privacy rights of users and a lack of care with respect to data that had been entrusted to Facebook,” McNamee said. “I’m not sure exactly what’s going on here, but I’m afraid there is a systemic problem with the algorithms and the business model of Facebook that allows bad actors to cause harm to innocent users.” Facebook has reported a big jump in profits even though people are spending less time on the world’s biggest social network. The company said its priority was to encourage personal interaction among users, rather than simply boost the number of hours they spend on Facebook. Co-founder Mark Zuckerberg said on… February 2, 2018 The popular messaging service WhatsApp said Tuesday it had implemented "full end-to-end encryption," a move which steps up privacy but may lead to conflicts with law enforcement agencies. The Facebook-owned mobile application with one billion users worldwide made the announcement following weeks of intense debate over efforts by US authorities… April 6, 2016 Facebook is now used by a quarter of all South Africans‚ while Instagram has seen the fastest growth of any social network in South Africa over the past year. These are two of the key findings from the South African Social Media Landscape 2016 study‚ released on Wednesday by World… September 17, 2015