A man and woman accused of beating a four-year-old girl to the point where she fell unconscious – all because the girl scuffed the man’s shoes – will now be charged with attempted murder. A video of the beating‚ which showed the girl’s mother kicking and punching the prostrate child‚ was circulated widely on social media. The pair‚ who have not been named to protect the identity of the child‚ appeared in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court last week. Police spokesperson Captain Nqobile Gwala said he two had initially been charged with assault with the intention to cause grievous bodily harm and released on bail of R3 000 each. The charge was later amended to one of attempted murder. “A 25-year-old woman was at her home with her four-year-old child and her boyfriend. It is alleged that the four-year-old accidentally tramped the boyfriend’s shoes and as a result he began to assault the child by punching her and also threw her against a cabinet‚” she said. “It is further alleged that the boyfriend threatened to kill the complainant if she did not assault the victim as well.” She said that the child was rushed to a local clinic and thereafter transferred to a hospital for medical attention. A NURSE accused of beating and torturing an 84-year-old cancer patient was not asked to plead at her second court appearance yesterday. Ncediswa Mkenkcele, 40, a former caregiver at the Lily Kirchmann Complex, appeared briefly before magistrate Leon Kemp in the East London Magistrate’s Court charged with assault with intent… May 6, 2015 THE aunt of a teenage girl who was sexually abused by her foster mother and that woman's boyfriend cried bitterly in court yesterday as she described her anger at the couple. "What happened should never have happened. It is just not fair. What they did to her will affect her… July 4, 2014 Pretoria - A 25-year-old Springs woman was on Thursday sentenced to eight years in jail for negligently causing her two-year-old stepdaughter's death by shaking and slapping her. Linda Hope said in a plea bargain agreement that she never had any intention to kill her stepdaughter, Christabelle Labuschagne, but realised that… October 29, 2015