Proteas out to level series in Port Elizabeth as off-field spat stokes SA-Aussie rivalry Given the goings-on this week, the second test between South Africa and Australia is bound to be a cracker, starting at St George’s Park in Port Elizabeth today. After all that was said this week, the teams will finally get down to playing some cricket again. It has been a short turnaround since South Africa lost the first test in Durban last Sunday, but there has been 24-hour coverage on the unseemly Quinton de Kock-David Warner controversy since it broke on Monday. It has had the cricket world and social media at odds this week and, no matter what they tell you about both team managements meeting with officials to restore some calm yesterday, there will still be some pent-up aggression waiting to be offloaded. It would be naive to think any different. But it is how the players are able to channel that aggression that will be key to all the players making it through the series without any more demerit points being slapped around. At his captain’s media conference yesterday, Proteas captain Faf du Plessis admitted the affair had been distracting but not totally unexpected. “I think it’s the norm for me when you play against Australia. “It’s just about getting us ready for a test match. It’s a big game for us. We have to make sure that our cricket does the talking. “We’ve spoken behind [closed] doors about lessons learnt. We have to make sure that we get back in the series at one-all.” One-nil down in a four-match series is not a disaster, but it certainly has the ability to morph into one from two-nil down – and Du Plessis said his bowlers were raring to have another go at the Aussies. “I suppose it’s fun and games. “Credit to you guys to making it a little more spicy,” he said with a smile to the gathered media. “But certainly the mood in the camp hasn’t changed much. Our style of play will be the same. “Yes, it does make the blood pump a little bit because it makes you want to get back on the field and perform against a quality Australian team. “For me, it’s what makes you best as a player.” To achieve a victory, Du Plessis said, his best batsmen needed to front up. “It’s very important. It’s always important. “There’s no doubt about the fact that the big players didn’t perform in the first test and that’s the reason why Australia won it. “So, it’s as simple as that for me. It’s not about relying on youngsters to perform. For me, it’s about everyone stepping up to the plate. “But, especially in big games, you need your big players to score runs.” Du Plessis said they had discussed team combinations, but it was unlikely they would change the lineup too much, if at all. “It’s obviously between Temba and Theunis. “We’re weighing up where Temba is coming from a long injury and a lay-off and whether he comes back into the team. “He’s batting pain-free. It’s just the power in the hand that he’s still getting back. “The power of the hand is probably at 80%,” the captain said. Australian skipper Steve Smith knows South Africa will be determined to bounce back strongly. “They are a very good side and they are probably hurting after losing the first test, and no doubt they will come back hard in this one,” Smith said. Like Du Plessis, he said his team were ready to get back to playing cricket. “We’re all good now. Obviously, there’s been a fair bit going on the last couple of days but the guys trained really well yesterday. “We played a really good game in Durban. It probably hasn’t been spoken about much. “We played some good cricket and hopefully we can keep it up this week,” Smith said. Asked if he was overly concerned about getting out to part-time spinner Dean Elgar again, Smith joked, and said: “I don’t think he really gives me nightmares. “But yeah, he’s got my wicket a couple of times, unfortunately. But you’ve got to get out to someone don’t you? “Look, if he bowls to me in this game, I’ll perhaps be a little bit more watchful,” he said. But upbeat Sri Lanka arrive ahead of first test at St George’s Park The Proteas failed to arrive in Port Elizabeth yesterday morning due to a mix-up of their flight dates and times. But the Sri Lankans landed safely in the afternoon ahead of the first test at St George’s… December 22, 2016 It is fitting that AB de Villiers and Dale Steyn make their long-awaited returns to the Proteas squad for St George’s Park next week, having made their debut together in Port Elizabeth 13 years ago. The Proteas face Zimbabwe in a historic day-night, four-day, pink ball test match at the… December 20, 2017 AB de Villiers will captain South Africa in the historic day-night, pink ball test against Zimbabwe at St George's Park, in Port Elizabeth, starting on Tuesday (1.30pm). De Villiers, who is making his return to test cricket after an absence of almost two years, will stand in for Faf du Plessis, who has not recovered… December 26, 2017