Crucial vacancy still open after selected candidate opts to decline offer The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’s hopes of cleaning up the public health department by filling a crucial vacancy have been dashed with its chosen candidate, Nokuthula Mgijima, rejecting the city’s offer. The position has been vacant for more than a year after former public health executive director Andile Tolom asked to be demoted in December 2016, citing health reasons. The department is responsible for refuse collection and cleaning of streets, parks and cemeteries. Mgijima was meant to start on March 1 but has opted to remain with the Umzumbe Local Municipality in KwaZulu-Natal. “My organisation did not want to lose me. When you are good, you are good,” she said. Public health portfolio head, councillor Lance Grootboom, said the vacancy had created instability in the department. “The biggest issue with the vacancy is that there is no [administrative] leadership,” he said. “What leadership do you bring in three months? “What can you achieve in three months with a department that has a capital budget of R3-billion a year?” Officials can only be in an acting position for three months, according to legislation. Presently, parks and cemeteries director Tsietsi Mokonenyane is the acting public health boss. “We have money and projects that are allocated for the year – having an executive director who might be there for only three months brings a little instability,” Grootboom said. “It also affects the budget and service delivery. “A department as big as this one needs stability, and it is a concern to me that we don’t have that, now that has Mgijima declined. “We must speedily appoint somebody who can fill the position. We can’t go on like this.” City manager Johann Mettler said he hoped the municipality could appoint someone else by May 1. “It is not ideal to not have a full-time executive director,” he said. We will continue with the acting arrangements and the current programmes of keeping the city clean.” Mettler said the vacancy had already been advertised. He said he was also looking at finalising charges against officials suspended from the department – including Tolom, who has since returned to work. Tolom was one of four officials suspended in July for alleged impropriety. The Eastern Cape Department of Health has urged people not to apply for jobs that were advertised internally, saying that an employee had advertised vacancies that had not been approved. Department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said their offices had been inundated with phone calls and CVs for the unauthorised positions. “We are… March 31, 2017 Hundreds of unemployed Eastern Cape nursing graduates from Lilitha Nursing College plan to start an indefinite sit-in at the provincial Department of Health offices in Bhisho on Wednesday, demanding placement letters which they claim were promised to them by the department upon completion of their nursing qualifications. But department spokesman Sizwe… May 1, 2017 Government must quickly fill vacancies in departments to enhance service delivery, the Public Service Commission (PSC) said on Wednesday (08/10/2014). "There may be critical posts that are not filled and critical posts impact negatively on service delivery," the PSC's Gauteng commissioner Michael Seloane said in Boksburg on the East Rand.… October 8, 2014