Hundreds of residents‚including young children‚were left homeless early morning on Tuesday after a blaze ripped through Doornbach informal settlement near Table View. It destroyed over 100 shacks. The sprawling informal settlement opposite Dunoon township is also commonly known as Kwa 5. There were no injuries. The cause of the fire is unknown. In the morning smoke could still be seen rising into the sky. Fire victims began to clear the charred debris on their plots to start rebuilding their homes. Some sifted through the piles of debris in an effort to salvage some of their belongings. The fire may have started outside of Unathi Lingela’s two-room shack where he lives alone. The 29-year-old appeared confused when GroundUp  sought comment from him. He said he woke up after getting choked from smoke and heard some residents kicking his door telling him to get out immediately. His shack‚ he said‚ was engulfed in smoke and he was unable to see but luckily his neighbours kicked his door open and pulled him to safely. He said he was not drunk the previous night and he does not own any electrical appliances. Nor does he own a gas or paraffin stove. He said some residents had seen the fire starting outside his shack door. Like Lingela‚ Tino Mtesi‚ 31‚ was living alone in a one room shack. He too woke up to flames licking the zinc of his shack. He rushed to safety leaving everything behind. “I am a bricklayer I lost all my building tools and my ID. I didn’t have time to salvage anything.” Cape Town Fire and Rescue Service spokesperson Theo Layne confirmed that the blaze left over 500 people displaced. He said the fire started at about 5:30am. He said 42 firefighters from seven fire stations were dispatched to battle the fire which was extinguished at 9:30am. “The cause of the fire is undetermined‚” he said. – GroundUp Hundreds of residents were evicted from their homes an hour before dawn yesterday (23/03/17) when public order police cleared an illegal settlement in Wells Estate, enforcing a high court order secured by the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. Mayhem erupted when trucks, bulldozers and police vehicles entered the Elephant Park informal… March 24, 2017 Despite being arrested and spending a night in jail, a defiant 93-year-old asthmatic Eastern Cape granny has vowed that she will not move from a piece of land she has occupied for the past 21 years. Feisty Tsolo resident MaDosini Makhamba is among about eight families defying an order to… January 20, 2015 John Harvey ABOUT 120 people from 35 families were left destitute when a fire ripped through the Kurland Village informal settlement outside Plettenberg Bay at the weekend. The fire, which began at 10pm on Saturday and lasted several hours, forced the residents – including 48 children – to seek refuge… July 30, 2013