Several passengers were injured on Monday morning (12/03/18) when a fire extinguisher exploded on an Algoa Bus. The incident happened in Mendi Road, New Brighton just before 8am. The panic caused a stampede as passengers rushed off the bus. Health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said one of the passengers phoned the ambulance control centre. He said according to a report he received from Rynhardt Stander, of the department’s ambulance service, the explosion occurred near the front door of the bus. “A white powder engulfed the passengers who were in the bus, causing panic and chaos. Passengers broke the emergency exit window to escape from the bus. Several patients were injured when they jumped from the back of the bus. “Four passengers suffered possible spinal injuries in the ensuing stampede.” Kupelo said the condition of three others were not known as they were taken to hospital by private vehicle. “Twelve suffered light injuries and were treated for respiratory problems,” he said. Kupelo said the patients were divided between Dora Nginza, Mercantile and Livingstone hospitals for treatment.  Desperate passengers tried in vain to escape burning coach A Taiwan bus taking mainland Chinese tourists to the airport for their flight home caught fire and crashed yesterday, killing all 26 on board as desperate passengers struggled in vain to escape. The disaster was the latest in a series that… July 20, 2016 THIRTEEN people were injured in Motherwell this morning when a truck and a bus collided on Amanzi Road. According to emergency personnel on the scene, the truck allegedly rammed into the back of a stationary bus which was loading passengers at the time. Emergency services transported 13 people with… September 2, 2015 Cow on road causes horror crash on rural road in province NINE people were killed when a furniture truck and a minibus collided on an Eastern Cape road at the weekend. In another accident yesterday afternoon, seven people were seriously injured when a bus overturned elsewhere. The fatal accident occurred… December 7, 2015