A former Port Elizabeth schoolgirl has been appointed as President Cyril Ramaphosa’s spokeswoman. Former ANC media manager, Khusela Diko, is an Old Girl of the Old Collegiate Girls’ Guild – an association of past pupils of Collegiate Girls’ High School in Port Elizabeth. She was in the class of 1993. Diko’s appointment was announced by the Presidency on Friday morning. In a statement, the Presidency said: “Ms Diko is a seasoned communicator and marketing professional who was, until recently, the governing party’s national communications manager, and acted as its spokesperson on many occasions. “Prior to joining the ANC she served as chief director of communications in the Gauteng provincial government”. Diko, who has a BCom degree, is a member of the ANC’s Gauteng provincial executive and working committees.   Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. AS the modern generation test themselves at the 15th National All Girls Sport and Cultural Festival, they are continuing a long history of sport at Collegiate, going back to, at least, the beginning of the last century. The history of sport at the school is well chronicled in JJ Redgrave's… April 29, 2014 FULL of quirky characters and fun vibes, Legally Blonde: The Musical, holds great promise. The show suits the all girls' school Collegiate as it centres on girls and breaking stereotypes. It brings a positive message to everyone about being the best you can be, choosing your own path in life,… August 8, 2014 Crowned Miss Teen Commonwealth South Africa at the weekend, former Collegiate Girls’ High School pupil Asande Mchunu believes the title will help give impetus to her charity work while she manages a balancing act between her many activities. Competing against 29 other eager contestants, Port Elizabeth’s Asande, 17, strutted her… July 4, 2016