South Africa’s departments of health‚ trade and industry and agriculture‚ forestry and fisheries told Parliament on Wednesday that the primary source of the deadly listeriosis outbreak was still unknown. According to the Democratic Alliance (DA)‚ the departments briefed a joint-sitting of the portfolio committees on health; trade and industry and agriculture‚ forestry and fisheries on progress made to contain the further spread of the listeria bacteria. “Although traces of the bacterium has been found at Enterprise and Rainbow Chicken facilities‚ the Departments have today confirmed the DA suspicions that Rainbow and Enterprise factories are a source but not the primary sources of the outbreak‚” said DA MP Patricia Kopane. “It is now apparent that the government seems to be blaming bureaucratic processes and has opted for prematurely scapegoating Enterprise and Rainbow because it does not have proper emergency plans in place to contain this outbreak‚” she said in a statement. More than 180 people have died and there are more than 900 more confirmed cases in the country. “We need urgent plans to prevent further loss of life‚” she said. The DA called on government to implement steps to prevent another outbreak and ensure food safety for all South Africans. They included: It was also revealed at the meeting in Parliament that the country had a major shortage of environmental health practitioners at municipal level. If you have any of the polony or sausage products named by the health ministry as possible culprits in South Africa’s listeriosis outbreak - especially if they’re opened - remove them from your fridge immediately to avoid contaminating other food. And yes‚ you will be refunded for them‚ even if… March 4, 2018 Tiger Brands said on Friday it was doing everything possible to get to the root cause of the listeria bacterium at its Enterprise Foods’ Limpopo facility. “We acknowledge and recognise that we are dealing with a national crisis which has impacted customers‚ consumers and the industry. Tiger Brands wants to… March 9, 2018 Rush to remove listeriosis-linked products Supermarkets across South Africa raced yesterday to withdraw processed meat products made at a factory found to be the origin of the world’s worst-ever listeriosis outbreak. Mozambique and Namibia announced an immediate ban on processed meat imports from South Africa, while Malawi urged shops to… March 6, 2018