As a result of apartheid spatial planning, cost of transportation to and from work continues to disadvantage and promote poverty among urban poor residents of the Bay. According to the integrated urban framework policy (IUDF) more than 50% of urban poor residents spend more than 20% of their declared household income on transport. Therefore, development of the new mall at the Boardwalk will indirectly exacerbate the current challenge of informal settlement and housing backlog in the metro if development is not linked with plans for affordable housing closer to place of employment. The majority of employees to be employed will not be able to afford the market-related rental available closer to work. This only means that urban poor will have to live at the periphery of the city which maintains apartheid spatial segregation. Development of this nature can be a catalyst for spatial transformation in the city if it is linked with plans for affordable housing, situated closer to places of employment. There is no doubt that the mall will create jobs for Bay residents. However, if there is no affordable housing plan accompanying the mall development, just like many large infrastructure development it will fail to address the core challenges of poverty, spatial transformation and inequality. Rather, it will contribute indirectly to the current challenges of informal settlement and urbanisation of poverty in the metro. Rofhiwa Tahula, final year Bachelor of Human Settlement Development student and chairperson of the Human Settlement Student Society at Nelson Mandela University DEVELOPING a resilient and job intensive economy is the City of Johannesburg’s goal‚ mayor Parks Tau said yesterday. “We have rolled out the most ambitious youth-empowerment programme in the country‚ partnering with more than 250 companies from the city and elsewhere‚” Tau‚ presenting his final state of the city address… May 5, 2016 Development outside Despatch set to provide homes for 45 000 people Plans have been set in motion for a R1-billion integrated housing development, set to provide homes for nearly 45 000 residents on the outskirts of Despatch over the next 15 years. The Florida Heights development, which is expected to… October 31, 2017 Residents of two suburbs where the City of Cape Town wants to build affordable housing are worried it will drag down property prices. Issuing the prospectus for the 11 sites on Friday‚ mayoral committee member for urban development Brett Herron said this had emerged as one of the key concerns… September 29, 2017