A stepmother who struck her stepdaughter, who later died after a heated altercation while on an overseas holiday, maintains it was a “mistake”. “It was never my intention to hit her‚ but in the moment of anger it just happened without thinking‚” Marietjie Vosloo said on Wednesday outside a court in Mauritius after she was found guilty of assault. Mundolene Vosloo‚ a former pupil at Hugenote High School in Springs‚ collapsed after Marietjie hit her at the Riu Creole hotel in Le Morne in October 2016. They were engaged in a heated argument over towels at the resort’s swimming pool.  The argument continued inside the hotel‚ where Marietjie struck Mundolene. Mundolene collapsed in a corridor and was declared dead shortly afterwards. An autopsy revealed that the teenager had bleeding on the brain after the family holiday ended tragically. Marietjie addressed Mauritian media outside the court. “Every day is guilt [sic]‚ because I loved her like my own daughter. Whether she was not my daughter‚ she was like my own daughter. So‚ for me‚ I also lost a child.” Marietjie said her family hired an au pair to take care of her 11-year-old son in South Africa‚ because her husband works abroad. “There’s no family to look after him. I really want to go to be with my son.” Defimedia reported that Magistrate Navina Pursuramen said judgment would be handed down on Monday. Marietjie has been in jail for 17 months. – TimesLIVE Cops discover body in shallow grave at boyfriend’s Paarl home The body of a pregnant Paarl woman, who disappeared on January 5 and is believed to have been strangled, has been found buried under rubble in the backyard of her boyfriend’s home. Nicola Pienaar, 28, was allegedly killed by her… January 31, 2017 Knockout mom earns her yellow belt WHETHER it is on stage or in the dojo, Niqui Cloete-Barass belts it out and this month she swapped her feather boas and sequins to earn a yellow belt in karate. What’s more, the popular Bay singer, MC, comedian and businesswoman only took up… April 29, 2015 A PORT Elizabeth woman – burnt so badly that her chin and chest fused together – described yesterday how her former boyfriend allegedly doused her in petrol before setting her alight. The severely scarred and petrified Andrea Sparks, 29, repeatedly broke down as she told the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court… November 27, 2014