A Johannesburg paediatrician and mother of two who raised more than R1-million last month to help pay for a new chemotherapy drug‚ has died of blood cancer. Yesterday morning‚ Kerryn Neilson’s husband, Sheldon, broke the news on Facebook, where more than 1 000 people followed the 32-year-old’s battle against T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-all.) “Today I held my best friend while she took her last breath. My heart is broken. My beautiful wife‚ Kerryn Botes Neilson‚ you have fought so fiercely‚ for so long. You have been an example to all of us.” “For all that you suffered‚ you did it with grace and you taught us all what it means to be brave. I am so proud of you. I will love you forever. Until we meet again‚” he said. Neilson’s campaign on crowdfunding platform BackaBuddy is one of two local medical fundraisers to raise more than R1-million for treatment. When Nielson‚ from Midrand‚ was diagnosed with T-all‚ her haematologist suggested a chemotherapy drug‚ Nelarabine‚ which is approved in the US and Europe but not readily available in South Africa. The estimated cost of the treatment was R2.5-million. Nielson raised close to R1.3-million. She was able to have only one round of the drug before she contracted an infection. Last week‚ her husband said on Facebook that she had taken a turn for the worse. “Her pain became unbearable and she was started on continuous morphine. That was the last time that I was able to have a normal conversation with her,” he said “It was not expected that Kerryn would survive this long. Sometimes when I talk to her, she sheds a tear‚ other times I can see her grit her teeth and the fierce determination in her eyes and I know that she’s still in there‚” he wrote at the time. He said she was surrounded by her family and friends. Undercover checks on electricity meters find five big companies underpaying bills Five Nelson Mandela Bay businesses have been busted for stealing electricity – caught by the company hired by the municipality to curb power losses, Amat Cleaning and Security Services. The firms, which the municipality referred to as big businesses… February 3, 2017 THE ETC is committed to providing all people in search of skills and development with the kind of training that satisfies the needs and aspirations of individuals and organisations. January 25, 2014 Live life to the full, says new Baptist pastor January 25, 2014