Gelvandale, Malabar, Brymore and sections of Walmer amongst many other suburbs will be affected this Sunday during a scheduled electricity shutdown, according to the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. The shutdown is expected to take place between 8am and 4pm to repair earthing and communications systems between the Ditchling, Kragga Kamma and Malabar electricity substations. Residents are requested to plan their activities to accommodate this “important refurbishment to lessen the effect of the outage,” the metro said. The areas that will be affected are as follows: Gelvandale, Helenvale, Malabar, a section of Kabega Park, Kragga Kamma, Sunridge Park, Fernglen, Framesby, Westering, Linton Grange, Parsonsvlei, Cotswold, Morningside, Glenroy Park, Brymore, Walmer Downs, Charlo, Springfield, Greenshields Park, a section of Overbaakens, a section of Walmer, Miramar, Mount Pleasant and a section of Lovemore Heights, THC-line (Theescombe / Chelsea), KKT-line (Kragga Kamma), SEA-line (Seaview).  A LARGE part of Port Elizabeth was left in the dark last night after two substations tripped shortly after 8pm. This came after the city experienced sporadic load-shedding at the weekend. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality communications director Roland Williams said last night that the blackout, which affected more than 12… November 25, 2014 LARGE parts of Port Elizabeth were plunged into darkness last night when a transformer exploded at the Sunridge-Kragga Kamma substation. The explosion was followed by a massive spark, seen right across the city. Minutes after the transformer blew, a circuit breaker tripped at the Ditchling substation in Algoa Park. “There… October 7, 2014 Basic Education minister Angie Motshekga is expected to announce the 2014 Matric results this evening. In addition to the usual outlets, this is where you can get your copy of The Herald tomorrow: Newspaper house Hunters Spar(Parking area) Fiveways Boardwalk Walmer Boulevard Buffelsfontein Road Makro Mount Road NMBP Strandfontein Road La… January 5, 2015