To our councillors who are responsible for road maintenance, Ow! My Honda Civic has had new brake pads fitted on the front wheels – and as a 2013 model it has only done 33 000km – at a cost of R4 300. I am told it is due to braking at the bumps in the roads created by our municipality. My tyres have only done the same number of kilometres, but have had to be replaced by new ones – cost R4 200. Again I am told it is the road surfaces in Port Elizabeth that caused the excessive wear and tear. So come with me, the Cape Road surface from First Avenue, Newton Park, to the Sunridge Park turn-off is in a shocking condition and has to be re-surfaced due to the heavy daily traffic at ordinary times and especially at peak hours. Perhaps our metro councillors don’t travel this road. Please let us know what route they take so that we can also enjoy the tranquillity of ignorance of duty. The Moffett Expressway is fraught with manholes which bang one’s car’s suspension, but thanks to the car designers who have built steering controls in their vehicles. Just don’t mention the numbers of potholes created by heavy vehicles with excessive loads and also our city buses. Why can’t our municipal road specialists use manhole covers designed from space age materials which are strong and durable, and which thieves cannot resell to ironmongers? In the present budget I see no provision for road maintenance in the suburbs where, I am sure, most of the municipal rates and taxes are paid and for many, many years. Can we perhaps advise the council of other suburbs where the distressed roads are creating havoc with residents’ vehicles? THE decision to resurface the stretch of Beach Road and Marine Drive between South End Museum and the beacon has raised a number of concerns recently in the media. As the councillor responsible for the area, I would like to report on my investigation into the matter. I have interacted… June 17, 2014 Residents say stepping up collections has failed to make an impact THE Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality is fighting a losing battle in its war against illegal-dumping, despite pumping millions of rands into the problem. Clothing, old tyres, soiled nappies and even electrical goods are strewn over illegal dumps across the… September 21, 2015 WE live in a beautiful country with beautiful people who in most instances are willing to go above and beyond to assist, help and motivate their fellow beings. Yet we have the few criminals, hoodlums, who are hell-bent on creating their own wealth ahead of others and in doing so… September 18, 2014