In 2006, OJ Simpson sat down for a wide-ranging, no-holds-barred interview in which he gave a gripping “hypothetical” account of the brutal murder of his ex-wife and her friend in Los Angeles. For over a decade, the tapes of the infamous exchange with radio host and publisher Judith Regan were considered lost but have re-emerged, according to Fox, which was due to air the footage yesterday. The former football star and actor, 70, offers a detailed and disturbing version of what might have happened on June 12 1994, when Nicole Brown Simpson, 35, and Ron Goldman, 25, were stabbed to death. Under the pretext that his account is fictional, he describes grabbing a knife as he confronted his ex-wife at her home but says he then blacked out and remembers only seeing everything covered in blood. “Forget everything you think you know about that night because I know the facts better than anyone. This is one story the whole world got wrong,” Simpson, who never took the stand during his trial, says. Award-winning journalist Soledad O’Brien will front OJ Simpson: The Lost Confession? – lining up a panel of experts to discuss the footage. “We’re taking you inside the mind of OJ Simpson, where nobody has ever been,” Terry Wrong, executive producer of the two-hour television special, said. Simpson was acquitted in 1995 of the grisly murders in a case that became known as the trial of the century. He was subsequently found liable for the deaths in a 1997 civil suit. Disgraced American football star OJ Simpson, whose racially charged 1995 murder trial riveted the nation, was released from jail on parole early yesterday after nine years behind bars for armed robbery. Simpson, 70, left the Lovelock Correctional Centre in the western state of Nevada just after midnight, prison spokeswoman Brooke… October 2, 2017 SUPPORTERS of Oscar Pistorius welcomed the dismissal of murder charges against the Paralympian yesterday on social media while others took to the platform to express their disbelief at the decision. Some even compared the case with that of American football player OJ Simpson – who was acquitted in a criminal… September 12, 2014 Denise Williams SUSPENDED Hawks spokesman McIntosh Polela is spending his time in the sin bin writing another book – this time about the sensational murder of police constable Francis Rasuge, which is being co-authored by her convicted killer. Polela was placed on paid suspension in November last year after a… April 8, 2013