Boasting the latest developments in automotive technology and sustainable design, Port Elizabeth’s Billson Group yesterday inaugurated its landmark R110-million Billson Trucks facility in Deal Party. The 6000m2 Volvo Trucks and UD Trucks dealership and service centre is situated at the entrance to Deal Party where it is expected to act as a catalyst for further development in the industrial zone. Established in 1986, the Billson Group has been a UD Trucks franchised dealer since 2001 and recently became one of Volvo Trucks’ independent dealers. “We developed this dealership to offer our customers world-class facilities and services. It has been specifically designed to improve vehicle flow and turn-around times, to ultimately give our customers as much uptime as possible, ” Billson Trucks owner and managing director Patrick Billson said. He said the facility had also been designed to be as energy efficient as possible to reduce the company’s carbon footprint. The building is equipped with 11 30m-long service bays of which four also have service pits, a roadworthy test lane plus an additional eight repair bays. The roadworthy test lane also boasts a brake roller tester, chassis tester and wheel alignment equipment, which means that any brake repairs can be done on site with a safety certificate issued afterwards. Volvo Group Southern Africa president Torbjörn Christensson, who was among a number of foreign guests at the launch, described Port Elizabeth as a key economic hub in the region, with large industrial developments drawing key players in the logistics and transport market. He also described the new facility as the “best looking” in the country. UD Trucks Southern Africa’s managing director, Gert Swanepoel, said the brand was proud of the partnership with Billson Trucks over the past 17 years.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Truck company’s new hi-tech dealership set to change face of Deal Party area Billson Trucks in Port Elizabeth has announced a massive R100million investment into a new hi-tech, environmentally friendly truck dealership and related services centre. This is set to change the face of the city’s Deal Party industrial area.… June 28, 2016 Kelston extends brands portfolio with three new dealerships The Kelston Motor Group has started the year with a significant expansion after concluding R60-million deals to acquire three leading-brand dealerships, increasing its footprint to 15 facilities. Kelston, which can now lay claim to having dealerships in both Somerset West and Somerset… February 8, 2018 A NEW partnership has been cemented between FAW Trucks and Scribante Concrete of Port Elizabeth. FAW will soon offer technical training to the Scribante technicians, as well as driver training for all the FAW vehicle drivers, and a 24-hour, seven-days-a-week parts-on-call undertaking along with some of the new FAW vehicles… May 13, 2014