Generous South Africans are starting to dig into their pockets to help promising triathlon competitor Mhlengi Gwala pay for his medical treatment after a gruesome attack on him by criminals wielding a chainsaw. Police are searching for three suspects. Gwala, 27, managed to drag himself to safety after he was attacked while training in the vicinity of the University of KwaZulu-Natal on Tuesday. The attackers had dragged him into a bushy area‚ where they attempted to sever his leg with the chainsaw. Police spokesman LieutenantColonel Thulani Gwala said a case of attempted murder had been opened at the Umbilo police station. Dennis Jackson‚ director of the Elite Athlete Development programme, of which Gwala is part, said he was on strong pain medication and scheduled for surgery yesterday. “We had some very good news overnight. The plastic surgeon said they are more than likely able to save the leg.” Jackson said the attackers managed to cut through most of Gwala’s muscle‚ nerves and arteries to the bone, but missed the main artery. A crowdfunding initiative was announced on the Ironman SA Facebook page‚ and offers of help were shared on the group. A target of R100 000 has been posted on the BackABuddy website‚ titled “Get Mhlengi back on his bike”. “We are hoping to raise funds to support him with all his medical expenses‚ transportation‚ bike replacement and rehabilitation costs,” JP Valverde told supporters. Gwala has represented South Africa twice in international triathlons. South African triathlete Mhlengi Gwala managed to drag himself to safety after he was attacked by chainsaw-wielding criminals while training in Durban yesterday. The 27-year-old Chesterville athlete was hauled into a bushy area near the University of KwaZulu-Natal‚ where three men allegedly attempted to hack his leg with a chainsaw.… March 7, 2018 Radio 702 talk show host Xolani Gwala has revealed he has colon cancer. Updating listeners on Friday, Gwala said his cancer was at an advanced stage. “I’m living with something big. I found out that I have colon cancer‚ which was advanced‚” Gwala told fellow 702 presenter Stephen Grootes. He… September 29, 2017 South African professional golfer David Frost and golfing great Ernie Els were among hundreds of people who were saddened after hearing about former pro golfer Wayne Westner’s suicide at his home in KwaZulu-Natal yesterday. Hours after news broke that Westner, 55, had forced his way into his home on the… January 5, 2017