Ten businesses will get expert assistance Ten Eastern Cape companies have been selected to participate in a rigorous, high-level training and mentorship programme which should see them emerging as new entrants in the country’s exports industry. The Exporter Development Programme will start next month and provide participants with a year of development, training and mentorship. The public-private partnership initiative between the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber and the Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC) was announced at the chamber’s offices yesterday. Exporters Eastern Cape will also play a pivotal role in the programme by providing valuable mentorship, while the highly regarded International Trade Institute of South Africa (ITRISA) will be providing the emerging exporters with training and the critical experience and insights needed to be successful in international markets. The programme was initiated after a number of barriers, which affect Bay companies’ ability to graduate their businesses into exports, were identified. These included international competition, potential buyer outreaches, costs relating to marketing, logistics and transport, and export documentation challenges. The ECDC partnered with the chamber as part of its mandate to support the provincial job creation effort and its enterprise development strategy. While the chamber is expected to play a project management role, the ECDC will provide funding and export expertise and assistance. Yesterday’s launch was the culmination of research into the barriers facing potential exporters, the creation of the programme and then the selection of the benefiting firms. “The Exporter Development Programme is designed to assist companies to reduce and eliminate all these challenges and barriers,” chamber chief executive Nomkhita Mona said. In 2016, the Bay accounted for 77.5% (or about R41.6-billion) of provincial manufacturing exports, followed by Sarah Baartman District at 3.1% (or about R1.6-billion) and Buffalo City at 2.7% (or about R1.4-billion). “It is against these statistics that the ECDC has decided to partner with the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber on delivering the pilot phase of the [programme],” ECDC senior manager for export promotion Phakamisa George said. The companies are Buzwebethu Textile Prints, Flat Foot Engineering, RV Footwear, IKIM Solutions, SOGA Organic (Pty) Ltd, Budget Office Furniture, Fred Footwear, Nceduluntu Wesley Community Project – which has a toy and a mohair concern in its fold – La Mohair, and SA Canvas. MORE than three-quarters of organised business in Nelson Mandela Bay employs fewer than 50 people. Some 75% of the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber's members fall under the category of small and medium enterprise (SME) and, for this reason, the chamber has begun an Enterprise Development Programme. The pilot phase… November 4, 2014 The sky is the limit for Nelson Mandela Bay firms wanting to do business with the rest of the world. This was the word from the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI)which yesterday presented a Trade and Export Workshop in partnership with the Eastern Cape Development Corporation and Nelson Mandela… June 27, 2014 Port Elizabeth-based exhaust couplings manufacturer SJM Flex South Africa has been named as the overall 2016 Exporter of the Year by the Eastern Cape branch of the Exporters Club of South Africa. The winner of the coveted award was announced at the Exporters Club’s prestigious Exporter of the Year annual… August 13, 2016