 Assets including a house, high-end vehicles and a variety of other valuables owned by a church are currently being seized by the Asset Forfeiture Unit, which alleges they were bought with funds meant for the beleaguered IPTS bus system. This follows a High Court order granted to the AFU to preserve the property, valued at R1.3-million, and the other items valued at nearly R6-million. The order revealed an intricate web of how money was transferred between bank accounts belonging to Andrea Wessels’ company Zeranza 299 and the Peculiar People’s Church in Uitenhage, which is run by Pastor Victor Bassey. The National Prosecuting Authority believes Wessels used the church to deposit the ill-gotten funds and move the money among church accounts, and then withdraw it or used it to buy luxury goods.  According to the NPA Wessels and her co-accused Nadia Gerwel, the former assistant director in the finance department of the municipality, were members of the church and managed its finances. Wessels joined the church during the second half of 2011. Wessels, Gerwel and their co-accused – former EP Rugby president Cheeky Watson, former director of Laphum’ilanga Transport Services Mandisi Mkasa, and former Access Facilities and Leisure Management chief executive Stephan Pretorius – face charges of fraud and money laundering relating to the IPTS. Police were called out by alleged fraudster Andrea Wessels when the sheriff of the court arrived at her house in Summerstrand to serve her with a court order to seize property to recoup millions of rands she allegedly siphoned from Nelson Mandela Bay’s Integrated Public Transport System (IPTS). Sheriff of… April 27, 2017 Members of the Asset Forfeiture Unit, the sheriff of the court and a curator have entered a property in Rubin Crescent, Summerstrand to serve a high court order on Andrea Wessels. The Asset Forfeiture unit intends to seize Wessels’ personal assets and preserve them while an investigation into funds… April 26, 2017 Uitenhage businesswoman Andrea Wessels could lose her house if the court finds it was bought with money linked to the Hawks’ multimillion-rand fraud investigation around Nelson Mandela Bay’s Integrated Public Transport System (IPTS). The 40-year-old marketing manager was arrested on March 31, along with former EP Rugby boss Cheeky Watson,… April 13, 2017