In need of a family getaway at a perfect beach holiday destination? Come to The Herald Easter at the Farm at Holmeleigh Farm  on Saturday March 24 and enter our competition to win a luxurious self-catering family getaway to the lavish Cape St Francis Resort. All you have to do to enter is to cut out the entry form, published Monday to Friday in The Herald, and bring it to  Holmeleigh Farm on the day of the event. The entry box will be positioned at the stage. Situated along the Cape St Francis coastline,  the Resort is the ideal family beach getaway. With comfortable and homely accommodation, enhanced by spectacular views, all combined to create a stay that is relaxing and unforgettable. The winning family will stay in a self-catering two-bedroom Village Break Cottage just five minutes away from the beach.  The family will enjoy and experience the natural beauty of Cape St Francis as it is home to no less than five beautiful nature reserves, Cape St Francis Nature Reserve, Seal Point Nature Reserve, Seal Bay Nature Reserve, St Francis Field Nature Reserve and Irma Booysen Flora Reserve. The lucky family of four can expect home away from home accommodation for two nights at the family friendly holiday seaside resort. The prize is valued at R6 500. Please note it is subject to availability and conditions, with certain dates excluded. Visit their website here  https://www.capestfrancis.co.za/  for more details.  COASTAL locations remain a destination of choice for many holidaymakers seeking to rent leisure property, says Greta Daniel, national sales and operations manager for a leading estate agency. In Cape Town, the Blouberg area is very popular for its views of Table Mountain, long sandy beaches and water sports. All… July 8, 2013 ONE lucky Weekend Post reader and their partner will win a two-night stay, including breakfast at five-star luxury beach house The Sands. The prize includes accommodation (sharing) and breakfast, with all other costs for the winner’s own expense. To find out how to enter get your copy of Weekend Post… May 28, 2016 Tis the season for giving and two lucky couples can each win a luxurious weekend getaway sponsored by The Mantis Collection. All you need to do to stand a chance of winning is to fill in the competition form in The Herald print edition and pop it into… November 16, 2017