Parliament’s public enterprises committee is still waiting for a medical certificate from former South African Airways (SAA) board chairwoman Dudu Myeni to explain why she could not appear before the committee on Wednesday. “I did not get any SMS that says there is anything that the secretary has received‚” committee chairwoman Zukiswa Rantho said yesterday. Rantho did not want to elaborate on the illness‚ but said Myeni could drive down to Cape Town. “She has been given a directive by her doctor not to fly. That is the only thing I can say.” On Wednesday‚ Rantho said: “If the committee were to fly to Johannesburg to accommodate Myeni‚ this would set a bad precedent.” Rantho told the committee on Wednesday she could not share the details of Myeni’s illness in public. Myeni requested to make written submissions to the committee. The committee rejected Myeni’s excuse and proposal and insisted that she physically appear before the committee. Myeni also stood the committee up last week. The committee decided on Wednesday that Myeni must submit a medical certificate within 24 hours and appear next Wednesday‚ saying it would subpoena her if she failed to appear for a third time. DA MP Natasha Mazzone said on Wednesday: “I think we are being taken for fools. “I insist that Myeni flies to Cape Town. This is a matter of national importance. – TimesLIVE Former SAA chairwoman Dudu Myeni has yet again failed to make an appearance before the parliamentary inquiry into state capture‚ but in a written submission has denied the testimony of former Eskom chairman Zola Tsotsi that she told him that three senior Eskom executives should be suspended. According to Tsotsi's… March 7, 2018 Former South African Airways board chairpwoman Dudu Myeni will face a summons if she once again fails to appear before the parliamentary inquiry into state capture next week. Myeni is to be subpoenaed to appear before the inquiry into the alleged capture of Eskom by the Guptas after she snubbed… February 28, 2018 Controversial SA Airways chairwoman Dudu Myeni’s term was extended despite the national Treasury knowing that her appeal against a compliance notice had been dismissed. The notice, questioning her fitness as a director, was issued after the Companies and Intellectual Properties Commission (CIPC) had investigated two complaints about her conduct after… September 18, 2017