 Chaotic scenes were playing out in the Port Elizabeth city centre on Thursday morning as supporters of opposition parties clashed with police, who’ve formed a human chain to prevent them from accessing the council chambers in Military Road. Meanwhile, inside the chamber, the special council meeting – scheduled for 8am to 10am to discuss the flurry of motions, one of them against mayor Athol Trollip – was adjourned indefinitely by the speaker.   Speaker Jonathan Lawack explained that the council rules allow him to adjourn or suspend a meeting if it becomes too disorderly. The motions will be debated at a future council meeting to be decided upon by Lawack. Opposition parties are refusing to accept the ruling, which has led to two more adjournments. By 11:10am, the whips of the various political parties requested a 10 minute break to hold a meeting between them with Lawack. Earlier, a scuffle broke out when DA councillor Rano Kayser allegedly touched EFF councillor Zilindile Vena.  DA leader Mmusi Maimane was caught up in the fray before security intervened. Outside council supporters of the opposition parties have since returned to City Hall while police continue to monitor the situation.     The inaugural sitting of the new council of the City of Johannesburg had to be briefly adjourned on Monday afternoon after scuffles broke out between the Economic Freedom Fighters and officials of the Independent Electoral Commission. This was just as voting for the speaker of council resumed after having to… August 22, 2016 THIRTEEN DA councillors in the Kouga municipality walked out of a special council meeting yesterday after speaker Magdalene Dlomo refused to entertain a point of privilege by party leader Chimpie Cawood. The special meeting held in Jeffreys Bay was meant to discuss the adjustments budget of 2015-16, but mayor Daphne… February 24, 2016 A Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality council meeting adjourned abruptly on Tuesday morning when opposition parties butted heads over several items - including speaker Jonathan Lawack’s request for deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani to leave the meeting. Councillors accused Lawack of bending rules and reminded him of a meeting in October last… May 23, 2017