The father of a 16-year-old boy says his son, who he claims was unarmed, was among the seven suspects killed by the police during a raid at the controversial Seven Angels Ministries church in Ngcobo last month. Luzuko Mbedu was shot inside a church dormitory next to his father’s room. Bandile Mbedu, 59, said he was dragged and “wrongfully” detained at the police station for six nights without proper meals. Mbedu moved into the church with Luzuko and his 19-year-old daughter in 2014. He said he had been arrested alongside 46 churchmen and 60 women. “We were kicked and handcuffed and made to lie on the floor face down,” he alleged. He said he had been prevented from checking if his children were safe during the police sweep. “Every time I tried opening my mouth to ask about my children, they would kick me and tell me to shut up,” he alleged. Police, Prisons and Civil Rights Union (Popcru) provincial secretary Zimikhaya Skade said the force used by the police was sufficient for the threat they were facing. He said it was hard for police to decide who was innocent during a heavy exchange of fire. Mbedu said he wanted to open a case of murder against the police but was too scared. “How can I go to the same people who killed our fellow church members – if they can attack us like that, then how will they give me protection?” Luzuko was buried on Saturday in Mthatha. The Independent Police Investigative Directorate said they were investigating the incident and were unable to comment further at this stage. The family of the soldier gunned down during last week’s deadly attack in Ngcobo, which left five police officers dead, said yesterday that the badly wounded Corporal Freddy Mbuzeni Mpandeni had managed to crawl for a couple of metres after being shot four times. Mpandeni had been based in East… February 26, 2018 Five arrive in PE to work as contractors, only to face ‘full-force’ police raid based on false accusations Five men staying at a house in Port Elizabeth were subjected to a police raid this week after they were falsely accused of being members of the Mancoba Seven Angels Ministries church… February 28, 2018 Nelson Mandela Bay church leaders have condemned the actions of a religious cult which harboured the alleged perpetrators of the bloody Ngcobo police station attack. Clergymen said the Mancoba Seven Angels Ministries could not be considered a church. Five police officers and a former soldier were gunned down by a… March 2, 2018