A porn star sued President Donald Trump on Tuesday to declare a hush agreement over their alleged affair invalid because he had not signed it, documents say. Los Angeles lawyer Michael Avenatti posted on Twitter a copy of what appears to be the suit filed on behalf of the porn star who goes by the name Stormy Daniels. Her real name is Stephanie Clifford. The hush agreement does “not exist, because, among other things, Mr Trump never signed” the document with a Superior Court of California stamp, the suit says. It alleges she had an intimate relationship with Trump in 2006 and 2007, which she sought to reveal after Trump won the Republican Party nomination for president and other women claimed to have had sexual encounters with him. With help from his lawyer Michael Cohen, Trump then sought to “aggressively silence Ms Clifford as part of an effort to avoid her telling the truth, thus helping to ensure he won the presidential election”, the document says. Cohen prepared a non-disclosure agreement, a copy of which is attached to the lawsuit and which required a $130 000 (R1.5-million) payment to be wired from a company known as Essential Consultants LLC to Clifford in return for her silence. Using the pseudonyms Peggy Peterson and David Dennison, Clifford and Trump were to sign the agreement. Days before the 2016 presidential election which Trump won, Clifford put her name to the document, as did Cohen for Essential Consultants, it says. “Mr Trump, however, did not sign the agreement, thus rendering it legally null and void and of no consequence,” the document states. Cohen told US media last month that he had paid Clifford $130 000, prompting her manager to suggest that a non-disclosure agreement had been broken. Trump declined to comment on the issue. R780m deal disguised as loan US presidential hopeful Donald Trump signed off on a controversial business deal that was designed to deprive the US government of tens of millions of dollars in tax, The Telegraph in London has reported. The billionaire approved a $50-million (about R780-million) investment in a company… May 27, 2016 President-elect Donald Trump was in a huddle with advisers at his New York residence yesterday, plotting his next moves after thousands of protesters besieged Trump Tower and marched in other US cities for a fourth day. The demonstrations have become daily affairs following Trump’s defeat of rival Hillary Clinton, who… November 14, 2016 Tweet on Flynn firing complicates president’s position US President Donald Trump denied yesterday having asked then FBI director James Comey to stop investigating ex-national security advisor Michael Flynn, who has since pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI about discussions with Russia. Trump also insisted he and his campaign had… December 4, 2017