They invade land illegally, not as a deliberate act of defiance against the government, but because the alternative has become unbearable. They hope that erecting shacks on open pieces of land will remove them from the backyards of homeowners into the spotlight as a reminder to those in power that they too are waiting their turn for houses. These are the thousands of families setting up homes for themselves, creating new informal settlements all around Nelson Mandela Bay. Sitting outside his one-room shack in Motherwell in the scorching heat, Mthobeli Oliphant is one of thousands of residents considered to be occupying land illegally. Oliphant, a father of two, said he had moved out of his Zwide family home because he wanted ments that have popped up include Nomakanjani, close to the Motherwell cemetery, and added structures in Qunu, at Chatty Extension. The municipality’s hands are tied when it comes to speedily dealing with land invasions, particularly on land parcels earmarked for other developments. to create a home for his children, and as someone over 40 , he felt it was time to make his own way. He is unemployed and relies on temporary construction jobs to survive. “I know there’s a housing backlog but I also feel there’s an element of corruption in why we are not getting houses,” he said. The Nomakanjani informal settlement resident said he had erected his shack there because he saw that the land was vacant. There are no bulk services, which means the families do not have access to water, sanitation and electricity services. “In order to feel like a proper and decent human being, one doesn’t need a brick house – just water, electricity, toilets and roads so that ambulances and the police can safely get to where they are needed,” Oliphant said. Zukiswa Lose, 44, who was one of those evicted by the municipality last year from the A motion tabled by the ANC in November, and passed by the majority in council, prevents the metro from seeking a court order to evict people from land without the council’s approval. Bhanga believes that this motion is encouraging people to invade land illegally. “Since the motion was passed, land invaded in Wells Estate, said she was constantly fighting with her family and decided to build a home for herself and her children. The fact that her eldest child was 19 was also a deciding factor, she said. Like her neighbour, Lose said she would move to another area if the municipality provided land with services. At Uitenhage’s Moeggesukkel informal settlement, Frank Miggels described how he had been living under horrendous conditions for the past 12 years. Miggels said his family had become accustomed to living without basic services. “We are tired of fighting with the municipality. We are tired of toyi-toying and we are tired of looting foreign shops,” he said. “We’ve been stuck like this for a very long time. When it’s time to vote, politicians come here, bring food parcels and make all sorts of promises.” there has been an influx of shacks in patches of vacant land points in Motherwell and Uitenhage. “There are groups of people who have organised themselves so well that they are now selling these vacant pockets of land,” Bhanga said. Ronel Jonas, 30, said the Lapland informal settlement was the only home she had ever known, which was why she ignored calls by the municipality to move. “I was born here, my parents live here, so when they tell us we’re occupying land illegally that doesn’t mean anything to me because we belong here.” Johanna Pitt, 64, said she had been living in Lapland for nearly four years waiting for the human settlements department to identify land for them. “It was heartbreaking when the municipality came here to demolish our homes in 2015 like we weren’t even human beings.” Pitt said there were more than 400 families living in Lapland without any basic services. She was aware the government would not build them houses as Lapland was situated on a floodplain, But she said they would move if given alternative space. “No one wants to live like this.”  Lee-Anne Butler HUNDREDS of angry protesters burnt tyres, blockaded roads and hurled rocks at police in Uitenhage’s KwaNobuhle yesterday in the latest wave of service delivery protests to rock Nelson Mandela Bay. Eight people were arrested for public violence and two cases of arson are being investigated after the offices… August 16, 2012 Municipal land invaders from Wells Estate and Motherwell are going to be remunerated for the destruction of their property after municipal trucks bulldozed their informal dwellings. This was decided during a council meeting on Thursday after the majority of councillors agreed on a motion to have an eviction order reviewed… December 2, 2017 The eviction which took place at Tiryville, Uitenhage during the past week needs to be understood in a proper context. Some readers and residents of the metro criticised the municipality. In response to these critiques and in particular in response to the letter written by Hammy Petersen (“Taking us back… February 3, 2015