Archbishop emeritus Desmond Tutu said on Friday he had been mortified when he heard that award-winning South African author Ishtiyaq Shukri had been sexually abused by Anglican priests in Kimberley. In a statement issued this week by his publisher‚ Jacana‚ Shukri lashed out at Tutu over his decision last month to step down as an Oxfam ambassador in the wake of a sex scandal that rocked the international aid organisation. Early last month it was reported that Oxfam staff had paid for sex with prostitutes in Haiti while in the country after the devastating 2010 earthquake. It is alleged the organisation’s money was used for this. While not stating outright that his resignation was due to the revelations – instead saying it was linked to his retirement from public commitments – Tutu’s office said in a statement that the 86-year-old Nobel peace prize laureate was disappointed by the news. But Shukri described this stance as hypocritical. “When Archbishop Tutu made his statement about Oxfam‚ saying that he is ‘deeply disappointed’ about the sex scandal‚ I was reminded of all the times I had been sexually abused by Anglican priests.” Shukri said he was “repeatedly and routinely” sexually abused by priests at St Cyprian’s Cathedral in Kimberley. In response, Tutu’s office said yesterday that action should be taken against those who victimised Shukri. “Archbishop Emeritus Tutu was mortified to learn this week of the suffering Ishtiyaq Shukri has described enduring at the hands of priests in Kimberley. “Members of the clergy who break the law or behave immorally are as accountable for their actions . . . as any other member of God’s family‚” the statement said. It continued that while Tutu had retired from public life‚ he had confidence that the church’s current leadership would take action. “[Tutu] has the utmost faith in Archbishop Makgoba’s commitment to hold those clergy accused of wrongdoing to account‚ and support those whose trust in the clergy has been betrayed.” Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu is relinquishing his role as a global ambassador for international charity organisation Oxfam, which is embroiled in an alleged sex scandal. The 86-year-old Nobel Peace Laureate said yesterday he was deeply disappointed by allegations of immorality and possible criminality involving humanitarian workers linked to the charity.… February 16, 2018 Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu was discharged from hospital on Tuesday and “will continue his recovery at home”‚ a statement from the Desmond & Leah Tutu Legacy Foundation said. He had been admitted to hospital in Cape Town last week for “observation (and) treatment for a persistent infection (which) was a… August 4, 2015 He’s facing at least another fortnight in hospital‚ but Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu is said to be “in good spirits and not in any pain”. A statement from the Desmond & Leah Tutu Legacy Foundation on Thursday morning said that the 83-year-old Nobel peace laureate “is on a new course… August 20, 2015