British Prime Minister Theresa May angrily rejected a draft divorce treaty unveiled by the EU yesterday, saying she would never allow the bloc to undermine her country’s constitutional integrity. May lashed out at the proposal to keep Britishruled Northern Ireland in a customs union if there is no better solution to avoid a hard border with EU-member Ireland. The European Union’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, insisted the plan was not designed to provoke, and denied that it threatened the sovereignty of the UK. The EU’s draft withdrawal agreement spells out the details of a provisional deal sealed in December by May and European Commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker, which largely fudged the Irish question. “The draft legal text will, if implemented, undermine the UK common market and threaten the constitutional integrity of the UK by creating a customs and regulatory border down the Irish Sea and no UK prime minister could ever agree to it,” May told parliament. May said she would “be making it crystal clear to President Juncker and others that we would never” agree to Northern Ireland having different customs rules from the rest of the United Kingdom. The 120-page EU draft agreement says that in the absence of another plan, “a common regulatory area comprising the Union and the United Kingdom in respect of Northern Ireland” would be set up. This would involve an area without internal borders in which the free movement of goods is ensured and north-south cooperation protected. Barnier said it was merely a fallback in case Britain’s two preferred options – hi-tech frictionless border controls, or a solution linked to a future EU-UK trade deal – both fell through. “I’m not trying to provoke, I’m not trying to create any shock waves,” Barnier said. Ireland border remains a stumbling block – but May confident of positive outcome British Prime Minister Theresa May failed to strike a Brexit divorce deal with EU negotiators in Brussels yesterday, despite earlier reports of a breakthrough agreement that would have kept British-ruled Northern Ireland aligned with EU regulations. Both… December 5, 2017 Britain has voted to break out of the European (EU), striking a thunderous blow against the bloc and spreading panic through world markets Friday (24/06/16) as sterling collapsed to a 31-year low. Investors scrambled to sell the pound, oil and stocks as Britain took a lurch into the unknown, becoming… June 24, 2016 Leaked ‘Paradise Papers’ cause embarrassment for many high-profilers exploiting legal loopholes The European Union pushed for Europe to draw up a blacklist of tax havens after the “Paradise Papers” revealed loopholes used by Apple and Nike as well as celebrities such as Formula One champion Lewis Hamilton. While seeking to… November 8, 2017