Twenty-four years since she last performed in Port Elizabeth, South African singer and actress Bethany Dickson returns to perform at the Eastern Cape Philharmonic Orchestra’s Music at the Market concert next weekend. This, after she created a name for herself with leading roles in multiple Cape Town musicals with which she has toured the world. Weekend Post recently caught up with the Sunset Boulevard star. A: I have always been a Cape Town girl but I have always had family I still visit in PE. If my memory serves me right, I last performed in PE at the age of six in the Annie Get Your Gun production that was directed by my aunt Robin Williams and starred my mother, Julie Dickson. A: I was 21 and, while I had done amateur theatre before, this was my first professional musical theatre show which was a great first experience. We travelled to Johannesburg and went all the way to China with that production. A: It’s always a bit daunting when you do something for yourself for the first time, regardless of how familiar you are with it, so I definitely felt the sense that I was starting from the bottom and I needed to learn my own way.
I had amateur stage experience from singing and dancing in church and doing shows as a child but it was never at the same professional level as when I started High School Musical. A: Definitely a sense of knowing what I am doing. I don’t know everything because one is always learning, but I now have a more certain understanding of what is required of a professional theatre performer.
A lot goes into it and it takes a lot of practice. Those are some of the things I may not have fully understood back then. A: Playing Maria in The Sound of Music was a huge bucket list role because not only am I a huge fan of Julie Andrews, but my mom had also played the role of Maria in the same production 15 years earlier. It was incredibly special and insanely scary for me because Julie Andrews is holy ground. You don’t mess around with a role like that. A: My most recent role was Kathy in Singin’ in the Rain with which I travelled all over the world. Lately, I have been focusing on my family, my church involvement and the coffee shop I opened two years ago. Last year, my husband and I had a baby boy and he’s just brought a whole new way of living. My cup is overflowing.
For the first year and a half of my baby’s life, I did not really want to focus on anything else but I am auditioning for a couple of roles now, so we’ll see how that goes. A: I’m very excited. I love PE because I’ve been to visit my family there many times. I’m honoured to have been asked to perform alongside such awesome musicians. Dickson will perform alongside soloists Charl du Plessis, Asemahle Tsholoba, the Eastern Cape Philharmonic Orchestra and conductor Richard Cock. Music at the Market will be held from 3pm to 9pm on Saturday and 11am to 5pm on Sunday at the Feather Market Centre. Tickets are R100 to R120 for adults, R70 for pensioners, R50 for pupils and R20 for pre-schoolers at Computicket. Access to the Campanile bells, food trucks and live entertainment at Vuyisile Mini Square is free. It was an experience of a lifetime for the Madiba Bay Jazz Orchestra when they performed among jazz greats at the 20th Standard Bank Joy of Jazz Festival at the Sandton Convention Centre last weekend. Joined by Port Elizabeth-born award-winning jazz vocalist Phinda Mtya and Sisonke Xhonti on tenor saxophone,… October 6, 2017 Passion for opera leads to overseas success Growing up in Zwide, Musa Ngqungwana was so poor he sometimes went to sleep after having only a glass of sugar- water in an attempt to keep his growling stomach quiet. Today, however, the United States-based opera singer is internationally renowned and this… February 5, 2018 THE “Queen of Xhosa music”, Madosini Latozi Mpahleni, better known as Madosini, will give a rare performance using traditional musical instruments next week in Port Elizabeth. The living legend will present Power to the Women at St Stephen’s Church Hall in New Brighton on Thursday November 19, at 5.30pm for… November 12, 2015