Miss SA Adè van Heerden feels “blessed and grateful” to have escaped with minor injuries after being involved in a car accident on Sunday. Taking to her Facebook page on Monday night‚ Adè reflected on the traumatic incident. “Feeling so blessed and grateful for my life this morning. Yesterday I was involved in a very horrible accident and through God’s protection, managed to escape with only a few bruises.” Adè was driving a Nissan X-trail at the time‚ and revealed that the airbags had deployed, saving her from sustaining further injuries. She also thanked those close to her for the love and support she’s received since the accident. “Thank you to my Miss [SA] family for looking after me and taking care of everything I’ve needed the past 12 hours. “This has reminded me of how special and important our relationships are and that we should tell people how much we love them regularly. At the end of the day you won’t be remembered for your achievements‚ but for how you made people feel.” Miss SA organisers also asked fans to respect Adè’s privacy as she recovers at home.  She may have spent a month living on the pristine Miami coastline but after the hustle and bustle of competing in Miss Universe all Ziphozakhe Zokufa wants is to hit the beach in her hometown of Port Elizabeth. The bubbly 22-year-old beauty arrived back in South Africa this week but… February 7, 2015 A radiant Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters has been crowned Miss South Africa 2017 at a glittering ceremony held at Sun City. The runners-up are Adè van Heerden from the Western Cape (first princess) and Boipelo Mabe from Alexandra in Gauteng (second princess). An excited and overwhelmed Demi-Leigh, 21, from Sedgefield in the… March 27, 2017 Eating NY cheese cake on a bench in Times Square.... Bucket list item  #missuniverse #newyork #cheesecake #timessquare A post shared by Demi-Leigh | Miss Universe (@demileighnp) on Nov 29, 2017 at 9:34am PST From being crowned Miss SA‚ to having fellow contestants accuse the pageant of bias and being… December 4, 2017