A teenage girl who was duped into sharing topless photos on social media by a person who turned out to be a 54-year-old man, has been raped in Cape Town. Law enforcement spokesman Wayne Dyason said the man had groomed his victim – who believed he was much younger – on social media and then used the photographs to blackmail her when they met face to face at the Retreat Station area this week. “When she arrived and discovered his age and that he had deceived her, she wanted to leave‚ but he threatened to expose the pictures on social media and shame her. He then forced himself on her‚” Dyason said. “He promised to delete the pictures and the teen‚ thinking the nightmare was over‚ left for home. He called her again and made the same threats if she did not meet him at the same place.” The teen alerted the police. Officers hid in the surrounding bush and waited for the suspect to arrive for the next “meeting”. “When he arrived and the victim identified him‚ he was arrested by the officers. The case is being investigated by the SAPS and he is due to appear in court on Monday‚” Dyason said. The man‚ from Plumstead‚ is facing a charge of rape. A Port Elizabeth teenager has been raped – allegedly after meeting a stranger she had met on Facebook. The incident on Monday afternoon brings to nine the number of similar cases linked to social media reported since April. In September, police issued a warning after eight similar cases in which… October 24, 2017 Eight rape cases where social media platforms were used to befriend the victims – over a six-month period – are under investigation in Port Elizabeth. According to police, most of the cases are believed to be unrelated, sparking fears that sexual predators have devised new ways to lure victims to… September 16, 2017 A former Member of Parliament on Wednesday alleged she had been raped by a prominent sports administrator. Jennifer Ferguson‚ a singer-songwriter and former ANC MP‚ alleged the incident occurred in a Port Elizabeth hotel over two decades ago. She named the alleged perpetrator but he could not be reached for… October 18, 2017