I was filled with renewed hope for our future as a nation after Cyril Ramaphosa’s Sona address. However, following the passing of the parliamentary motion to investigate expropriation of land without compensation (EWC), my renewed hope became short-lived. Ramaphosa’s, and to an extent Julius Malema’s, attempts to allay the fears of white farmers are futile. White farmers are now facing reverse racism, under the guise of radical economic transformation. Our constitution will be changed by the majority should they deem this necessary to achieve their objective. A constitution that allows the state to deprive citizens of their property can never be described as “democratic”. If South Africa fails as a democracy, no further proof is required that “democracy” is a word foreign to Africa. It is arrogant of our president to urge “farmers to continue farming” as if it is “business as usual”. With the uncertainty of tenure, no one of sound mind will continue investing in fixed or moveable assets while under a cloud of dispossession. Banks are further sure to rein back on loans to farmers as land and potential crops can no longer be assumed to be viable collateral against loans. My take on this is that farmers and farm-related businesses have been given long-term notice of eviction and that they must plan accordingly. I say “long-term”, because it could take years to get an EWC bill passed democratically through parliament; on the other hand, it could be forced through by the majority as early as next year. To talk about stimulating economic growth and expropriation of farm land in the same breath is utter garbage. Our president has been instrumental in reviving the “land debate” by giving it prominence in his Sona. By doing so, he has again stirred up strong emotions among blacks and whites; emotions so strong that they can degenerate from the current killing of farmers into a full-blown civil war. After all, the forceful taking of land has historically been the cause of most wars. One can only assume that Ramaphosa has kept the land debate alive for the sole reason of gaining or keeping the populist vote in 2019 for the ANC and himself. Believe me when I talk about the potential of civil war (Africa is an ongoing prime example). Wars are to be avoided at all costs and the ridiculous idea of another “Orania”, with Cape Town as capital, started making sense to me when considering survival! Is it time to consider doing the “Great Trek” in reverse, starting with the potentially dispossessed farmers? As Jan van Riebeeck only encountered a couple of Khoisan in the Western Cape when he landed in 1652, presumably only the Khoisan will require some land to be given back to them [in that area]. I do not wish to make light of this serious issue. If only the term “without compensation” is dropped from the motion, the land debate will draw positive participation from all races. DEPUTY President Cyril Ramaphosa has been appointed the first chancellor of the new University of Mpumalanga. Ramaphosa’s inauguration ceremony will be held at the university’s main campus in White River‚ Mpumalanga‚ tomorrow. University council chairman Madoda Mabunda said Ramaphosa’s appointment would lend “political weight and leadership gravitas to the University… March 18, 2016 First of all, I don’t condone the way these cattle were shot, but remember there are two sides to a penny. Let the court decide what the verdict is and take it from there – not toyi-toyi, damage and burn private and state property. This is the same as what… May 11, 2017 Economic news is rarely chipper these days and usually entails some or other indicator pointing to yet more doom and gloom in South Africa. But Tuesday’s announcement of a nifty 3.1% rise in GDP in the final quarter last year was, indeed, welcome. Combined with hope in some quarters that… March 8, 2018