Hello sweethearts, your favourite gossip gal is back with the Bay’s latest mgosi. Those who know me well should know by now that my heart beats a little faster for anything French so you will not be surprised to learn that I showed up 24 hours earlier to a French movie screening at the Alliance Francaise in Richmond Hill last week. The movie screening was held on Thursday evening but your Skinners dressed up on Wednesday and rocked up to find the venue as empty as a broken water jar . . . But if you think Skinners minds making the same round twice where French is concerned, you could never be more wrong because I was there in the flesh on Thursday too, surrounded by interesting people sipping wine in a cosy room with Wasabi on the “big small screen”. I was excited to find out that the Alliance hosts regular events to spread knowledge about the French culture. I may have found my new favourite spot! On Friday night, I made a stop at Shisa African Restaurant at the PE harbour, where Wilson B Nkosi had the ladies weak at the knees with his chocolate-smooth baritone and romantic playlist. I spotted a number of couples here and there but most of the gals enjoyed the night with their lady friends. While a ladies’ night of that kind sounds like a good idea, the playlist, mostly dominated by old-school RnB, left Skinners feeling very single. I spotted a few familiar faces like playwright Xabiso Zweni who seems to be quite a fan of the restaurant. While I rested, preparing for the night ahead on Saturday, my minions were at Black Impala Tshisanyama in Deal Party where actress Noluvuyo “Bubbly” Sodela hosted a women’s empowerment seminar called “Another Woman’s Trash is Another Woman’s Treasure”. Should it not have been “ONE woman’s trash is another woman’s treasure” or is Skinners missing something? Anyway, my minions sounded impressed as they went on about how nice the food and bubbly at Impala were. The entertainment lineup included Bay actor Lonwabo Xatasi who now is, apparently, a comedian too. Speaking of comedy, I was thrilled to hear that Ngcaphephe shared some new comedy material – brother-man has a reputation of repeating the same material over and over. Taking the day to rest was a smart idea as my Saturday night was, in the words of millennials, LIT! I went to the Throwback to Love Tour at the Boardwalk where the lineup included Clint Brink (whom I would rather look at all day than listen to), the cute Bevin Samuels, Ernie Smith, Terra Cox and Jamali. I will admit I was there for Jamali and so were most people in the crowd, it seemed. I had the time of my life discovering the ladies are still the same Jamali we knew and loved. Can somebody get them back in studio already? While Jamali may have been my main reason for being there, everyone outdid themselves on that stage. The night was as rainy as it was fun and Skinners has the flu to show for it, but it was all worth it because, man, can Terra Cox hold a note! See you next time darlings, ciao! Your Skinnerbek/Umgosi dishes the gossip on the social scene. My dear darlings, I greet you all in the name of nothing but love in this beautiful month because bringing you the juiciest gossip is what I love to do. I went all the way to Jo’burg last week to rub… February 9, 2018 Only a handful of people watched controversial film Inxeba at Walmer Park Shopping Centre’s NuMetro cinema in Port Elizabeth yesterday and expressed mixed feelings about its storyline and themes. The NuMetro cinema started screening the film on Monday, despite protests calling for it to be shelved. Also known as The… February 7, 2018 Skinner enjoyed ‘ze’ eye candy as VfL Wolfsburg played against Chilli Boys. MY week of social shimmying started at No5 Boutique Art Hotel for the formal birthday celebrations of a lady who seems to love a good time as much as she loves the finer things in life – Thembeka… January 23, 2015