The Hawks are not investigating Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan in relation to the SARS High Risk Investigation Unit probe‚ contrary to assertions to this effect. “To put the record straight‚ there are no investigations or impending charges preferred against Minister Pravin Gordhan‚” it said yesterday. “It is not true that the Hawks are gunning for Minister Pravin Gordhan. “It is also not true that any official from the Hawks briefed former police minister Fikile Mbalula of any investigation against Minister Pravin Gordhan or provided him with any information detailing developments and so-called compelling evidence.” Earlier this month‚ former SARS deputy commissioner Ivan Pillay and two other officials said that the Hawks had served them with a summons relating to a report by auditors KPMG regarding a rogue spy unit. “The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation and the National Prosecuting Authority have formally charged three accused persons – Mr Ivan Pillay‚ Mr Johann van Loggerenberg and Mr Andries Janse van Rensburg – and [they] have been issued with summons to appear in the Pretoria Regional Court on April 9 on charges of corruption and contravention of the Rica Act,” the Hawks said yesterday. Last year‚ KPMG withdrew all of its findings around its report into the SARS so-called “rogue spy unit”. The report was partly instrumental in the downfall of former finance minister Gordhan‚ who was accused of endorsing the “rogue unit”. FINANCE Minister Pravin Gordhan has called on South Africans to protect him and his staff against law enforcement agencies manipulating the law and targeting him for ulterior motives. In a statement released last night, Gordhan said he could not believe that he was being investigated and that he could be… May 18, 2016 President flies out for two weeks as Gordhan standoff goes on President Jacob Zuma flew to Kenya yesterday and will be away for a fortnight as Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan slugs it out with the Hawks. Gordhan said yesterday he would not comply with the summons by Hawks’ head, General… August 25, 2016 Pravin Gordhan’s arrest would “shatter investor confidence‚ risk a sovereign ratings downgrade and be a disaster for the already fragile zero-growth‚ zero-jobs economy in South Africa”‚ the Democratic Alliance (DA) said. The DA’s David Maynier described the finance minister being “requested to appear before the Hawks suggests he may be… August 24, 2016