Steve Smith and David Warner have stepped down as Australia’s captain and vice-captain for the rest of the third test against South Africa at Newlands over the ball-tampering scandal. Cameron Bancroft admitted to rubbing sanded sticking tape on the ball after television cameras caught him redhanded on Saturday. Smith said the plan had been hatched by his team’s “leadership group”. “Following discussions with Steve Smith and David Warner they have agreed to stand down as captain and vice-Captain respectively for the remainder of this test match‚” a release quoted Cricket Australia (CA) chief executive James Sutherland as saying. “This test match needs to proceed‚ and in the interim we will continue to investigate this matter with the urgency that it demands. “As I said earlier today‚ CA and Australian cricket fans expect certain standards of conduct from cricketers representing our country‚ and on this occasion these standards have not been met.” Wicketkeeper Tim Paine‚ who is playing his 12th test‚ has been named as stand-in captain. “Both Steve and David will take to the field today under Tim’s captaincy‚” the release quoted CA chair David Peever as saying. “The board fully supports the process for an immediate investigation into what occurred in Cape Town. “We regard this as a matter of the utmost seriousness and urgency. “We will ensure we have all information available to make the right decisions for Australian cricket.” – TimesLIVE South Africa’s test series against Australia has already seen more than its share of drama‚ but the most explosive episode yet unfolded at Newlands on Saturday when the visitors admitted to ball-tampering. Television footage taken on day three of the third test showed Cameron Bancroft holding the ball in his… March 25, 2018 Six-wicket T20 win for Aussies AUSTRALIA gained a confidence boost ahead of the World Twenty20 with an impressive run chase to defeat South Africa by six wickets in the third and final Twenty20 international at Newlands last night. Needing to achieve the highest successful chase at Newlands after Hashim Amla’s… March 10, 2016 It should have been Morne Morkel’s day at Newlands yesterday, or Dean Elgar’s, or even Steve Smith’s on the second day of the third cricket test between South Africa and Australia in Cape Town. Morkel became the fifth bowler to take 300 wickets for South Africa in test cricket. Elgar… March 24, 2018