One of the three men who allegedly killed school secretary Nosipho Mabusela yesterday indicated that he would abandon his bid for bail. Lelethu Platana, 19, did not give a reason for his decision. Platana appeared in the Motherwell Magistrate’s Court alongside co-accused Mfusi Notshelo, 36, and 30-year-old Sikhumbuzo Hoyi. The courtroom was packed with Mabusela’s friends and family members. The three men are facing charges of robbery and murder. Mabusela was shot dead in her Motherwell home during what police believe was a robbery gone wrong on March 11. She was shot in the head while she and her disabled husband, Vukile, hid under blankets on their bed. Notshelo appeared in court for the first time since his arrest earlier this week. The other two men were arrested shortly after the murder. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said Notshelo had been arrested in the early hours of Tuesday in Kwazakhele. Yesterday, Platana told the court his mother had arranged a private attorney for him. However, neither Platana’s mother nor his attorney arrived at court. The case was then postponed as Platana did not have representation. The three men will appear in court again on March 29. Murdered school secretary Nosipho ‘Space’ Mabusela was not killed during a robbery but was the target of a plot, her family claimed yesterday. They were speaking at Mabusela’s funeral at the Lilian Ngoyi Hall in Kwazakhele. She was shot dead in her Motherwell home during what police believe was a… March 22, 2018 Pupils described a Port Elizabeth school secretary who was gunned down at her home on Sunday as a mother figure at a silent protest against crime yesterday. Nosipho Mabusela, 53, and her husband, Vukile, 59, were attacked by three men on Sunday night and Nosipho was shot dead. Her murder… March 17, 2018 Beloved Lungisa High staff member shot twice in head while cowering with husband under duvet Cowering beneath the bed covers, a much-loved school secretary was gunned down by intruders in front of her terrified husband – who did not realise until 10 minutes later that his wife had been fatally… March 16, 2018