South Africa fully supports the Africa Continent Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) and only did not sign it last week for technical reasons, Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said yesterday. These related to the processes that had to be followed domestically for an international agreement to be signed, Davies said. “South Africa is very much part of this process. We are not holding back. We don’t have reservations or differences‚” the minister said. He noted that South Africa had actively participated in the preparation and negotiations of the agreement, which was launched at an extraordinary summit of the African Union in Rwanda last week. Davies said South Africa had no real problems with the content of the agreement though it still had to be fleshed out with more detail. South Africa had signed a declaration committing it to the process to establish the AfCFTA. The agreement, which will remove barriers to trade, such as tariffs and import duties, and allow the free flow of goods and services between member states‚ is regarded as the foundation for the continent’s economic development but still has to be ratified by each of the signatories. It is only due to come into force in six months’ time. Ten African Union member countries including Nigeria refused to sign it. “The AfCFTA is an economic imperative to address the challenge of small and fragmented markets,” Davies said. Last year, the African market was worth R23.5-billion for South African exports, he said. SOUTH Africa and the US have finally reached an agreement on the terms and conditions for the import of US beef‚ pork and poultry after months of prolonged and nail-biting negotiation. The deal‚ which was reached in “extra time”‚ will secure continued tariff-free access to the US market for South… January 8, 2016 US chicken imports to resume SOUTH Africa has signed an agreement with the United States to resume imports of 65 000 tons of chicken each year, which had become bogged down over health concerns, the government said yesterday. The signing of the veterinary trade protocol, one of the key missing… November 18, 2015 Poultry industry thinks SA has given in to US, writes Linda Ensor THE government is awaiting formal confirmation that the conclusion of negotiations on market access for some US meats into South Africa has removed all obstacles to the restoration of its tariff- free benefits under the African Growth and… January 11, 2016