Three senior officers are demanding R500 000 each from former police minister Fikile Mbalula‚ whom they accuse of defamation‚ according to the South African Policing Union (Sapu). “As a caring union, we have assembled a team of legal eagles to take on Mbalula‚” Sapu general secretary Oscar Skommere said yesterday. Mbalula has been reshuffled out of cabinet‚ to become the ANC’s head of elections. “His ghosts will follow him to wherever he is‚” Skommere said. “He might feel he was doing well in the police. “However‚ his reckless‚ irresponsible and rude language in front of television cameras was totally unacceptable.” In January‚ the then police minister apologised and blamed a junior after being called out by Sapu over a remark published on his official Twitter account. The tweet related to an announcement that two police station commanders on the West Rand had been replaced‚ during a visit to the area by the minister to address community protests over criminality. At the time‚ the union gave Mbalula 24 hours to retract the statement‚ “as it defames our members”. Yesterday‚ Sapu said: “As much as former minister Mbalula apologised and the officers accepted his apology‚ the injury to their names was already done. “As much as he and the national commissioner reached an out-of-court settlement with the senior officers‚ the litigation process is a different ball game altogether. “We are suing Mbalula in his personal capacity.” The South African Policing Union (Sapu) has threatened to close down all 10111 call centres across the country unless demands such as salary increases are met. The threat came ahead of a planned march and go-slow arranged by Sapu for today. The 10111 call centres – which are manned by… June 6, 2017 General fights to keep job and wants Mbalula to stop ridiculing him Police General Berning Ntlemeza is seeking a restraining order against Police Minister Fikile Mbalula whom he accuses of interfering with his job as Hawks head. Ntlemeza will also ask the North Gauteng High Court to stop Mbalula from… April 26, 2017 Police Minister Fikile Mbalula has taken a swipe at those who have questioned his activities in Dubai. According to a location geotag shared through a tweet he posted several days ago‚ Mbalula is in Dubai for the festive season. "Safa ngama Gupta [blame it on the Gupta's] I pity those… December 27, 2017