Eskom will begin interrupting the power supply to various municipalities starting from Tuesday as it seeks to recover R13-billion owed to it by the municipalities. Eskom spokesman Khulu Phasiwe said some Free State municipalities owed Eskom R6.2-billion‚ some in Mpumalanga R3-billion and in the Northern Cape the total was about R1-billion. Phasiwe said power supply to the Nketoana municipality in the Free State‚ which owes Eskom R164m‚ would be cut for two hours in the morning and two hours in the evening from Tuesday. Power supply to Matjhabeng‚ Maluti-A-Phofung and Mantsopa municipalities will be cut off for four hours from next Monday. Maluti-A-Phofung‚ whose towns include Harrismith‚ Kestel and Phuthaditjhaba‚ owes Eskom a staggering R2.6bn‚ while Matjhabeng‚ whose towns include Welkom and Virginia‚ owes R1.8bn. Ubuntu local municipality in the Northern Cape‚ which owes R41m to Eskom‚ and Kazi Garip (R126m) will also experience power interruptions from March 19. Phasiwe said the power supply interruptions will be extended for more hours per day if the municipalities did not settle their debt. – TimesLIVE ESKOM is struggling with its finances largely because of poor revenue collection, but switching off defaulting municipalities is the utility's last resort. Fifty-one South African municipalities collectively owe Eskom R3-billion, and there appears to be no clear repayment plan. Municipalities in Mpumalanga, Free State and North West are among the… July 28, 2014 Eskom Acting CE Brian Molefe announced this evening that 10 of the top 20 defaulting municipalities have reached agreements to pay up what they owe to the electricity utility. This comes after Eskom earlier this month threatened to cut power supply to 20 non-paying municipalities from June 5. “Eskom has… April 30, 2015 TOUGH love is paying off in Eskom’s bid to rein in errant municipalities, with 18 of the 20 local councils that Eskom threatened with electricity cut-offs making plans to pay their outstanding bills. Municipalities owe Eskom about R4.4bn with the worst defaulters having outstanding bills as high as R1bn. Eskom… June 8, 2015