For week seven, Come Dine with Me South Africa is back in Port Elizabeth. Night one falls to hairstylist Wayne Futter to host, with a “Scarborough Affair” of carpaccio on melba toast for starters, venison served with “red red” wine for mains and homemade apple pie for dessert. Ebullient, and a little hyper, Wayne’s prep is a riot of jabbering, dancing in the kitchen and non-stop laughing. But will there be laughter when guests Maegan Frans the teacher, Gino Fransman the academic and Chantel Olivier the no-nonsense security exec arrive? Find out on BBC Brit (Channel 120) on DStv on Thursday at 8pm! The plot thickens when two of the guests realise they already know one another – will they form an alliance or will friends quickly turn into foes? Night two goes to Chantel who has an obsession with hand sanitiser. She certainly thinks that she has figured out a winning menu: a tasty threesome for starters, pork belly with veggies for mains and an ooey-gooey chocolate surprise for dessert. Things are thrown into jeopardy when one guest refuses to join in the spirit of things and goes as far as to describe the dessert as icky yucky. Will Chantel’s excessive cleaning and sparkling home be enough to save the day? Dinner party number three and it’s over to teacher Maegan – remember, it’s pronounced Maegen, not Meegan! Despite having a broken oven, Maegan is determined to put on a winning night and transport her guests to Mexico, dishing up baked bacon-wrapped jalapeno poppers for starters, a trio of tacos with corn salsa for mains and the three amigos for dessert – code for three shades of chocolate. With the help of a piñata what could possibly go wrong? The final night arrives and it’s acerbic academic Gino’s turn to see if he is the host with the most. He takes aim with his cryptic “salad soup” starter , followed by a personalised take on a classic, a pork Wellington for mains and then a surprising end to his meal (given Gino doesn’t like chocolate) . . . a chocolate brownie with ice-cream. Will the evening razzle and dazzle or will the chocolate leave a rather bitter taste in people’s mouth? Occupation: Self-employed hairstylist From : Seaview, Port Elizabeth. Most complicated dish: This would be my coriander, thyme and lemon stuffed geelbek cooked on open coals Worst CDWM nightmare: Someone with either bad manners or someone I feel plays a strategic game rather than voting fairly Occupation: Security expert From: Port Elizabeth. Worst CDWM nightmare: A dirty house and dirty cutlery and crockery Most complicated dish: I can cook pretty much anything Occupation: Teacher From: Port Elizabeth Most complicated dish: I’m adventurous so I can make a mess of something great Worst CDWM nightmare: Rude,obnoxious guests What is your signature dish? My chimichangas and my chicken curry Occupation: Academic developer and researcher From: Cape Town and now living in Port Elizabeth Cooking style: Cape Malay roots with many influences, which change depending on the dish Most complicated dish: The pork Wellington Worst CDWM nightmare: Not putting out a good meal What is your signature dish? My various curries What’s been you biggest dinner party disaster to date?Getting sick and having to cancel just before The sexual assault case against ANC Western Cape leader Marius Fransman is going ahead. This was confirmed on Tuesday by Gavin Prins‚ spokesman for Louisa Wynand‚ the 21-year-old Stellnbosch woman who has accused Fransman of sexual harassment during the ANC’s celebrations on January 8. Wynand has earlier been informed by… June 14, 2016 RELATIVES of a man who appeared in an identification parade related to the death of Taegrin Morris, who was dragged for four kilometres in a failed hijacking, say he has been cleared. "He has been involved in gangsterism, but he has never been into hijacking," said a family member, who… July 23, 2014 WORKING hours at a newspaper are such that it's often unheard of to get away during the day to pop around to your favourite cafe, even just for a quick cuppa. Instead you're far more likely to wolf down a stale sarmie hastily procured in Govan Mbeki Avenue, or to… September 14, 2014