Roger Federer suffered a shock 3-6 6-3 7-6(4) defeat to Australian wildcard Thanasi Kokkinakis on Saturday that will cost the Swiss his world No 1 ranking and leaves the Miami men’s tournament wide open. With defending champion Federer and six-time Miami Open winner Novak Djokovic exiting early, the likes of second seed Maric Cilic, Grigor Dimitrov (3), and Indian Wells winner Juan Martin del Potro (5) will all fancy their chances over the coming week. Alexander Zverev will also be in the mix but the German fourth seed had a close shave on Saturday, needing three sets to advance past Russian Daniil Medvedev 6-4 1-6 7-6(5), while Denis Shapovalov also moved on by defeating Bosnian Damir Dzumhur. Kokkinakis had trained with Federer but had never played the Swiss previously. With his vicious forehand dialled in, the Australian was able to wear down Federer, who announced after the match that he was again skipping the European clay court season. A disappointed Federer, who loses his No 1 ranking to Rafael Nadal with the loss, said he just could not raise his game. “Sometimes you have these matches,” he said. “Sometimes you find a way through. I just couldn’t get it done today.” His mood contrasted sharply with an ecstatic Kokkinakis. “When I feel like I am playing on my terms, I don’t think there’s too many people who can go with me,” the 21-year-old said. Fernando Verdasco will be Kokkinakis’s next opponent after the Spaniard rallied from a set down to beat countryman Guillermo Garcia-Lopez 4-6 6-0 6-2. Zverev needed more than two hours to prevail over Russian Medvedev, taking his ninth consecutive deciding-set tie-break victory, and will next face David Ferrer. Canadian 18-year-old Shapovalov breezed through the first set in 24 minutes against Dzumhur and led by a break twice in the second before breaking for the fifth time at 5-5 and serving out the 6-1 7-5 victory. He will next face Borna Coric, of Croatia, who turned back Argentine Leonardo Mayer 6-7(5) 6-3 6-4 in a nearly three-hour match. Japanese left-hander Yoshihito Nishioka, coming back after a year out due to major knee injury, went down 6-1 6-4 to 10th seed Tomas Berdych. Britain’s Kyle Edmund also lost, falling 7-6(4) 4-6 7-6(5) to American Frances Tiafoe, who frittered away four match points in the tiebreak before finally winning. In other matches, South African Kevin Anderson and Jack Sock advanced with straight set wins. Australian Nick Kyrgios took down Dusan Lajovic 6-4 6-1, while Pablo Carreno Busta defeated Denis Istomin 6-1 6-0. Top seeds through to second round as quit list increases FIVE-TIME champion Roger Federer and 2012 winner Andy Murray reached the US Open second round on Tuesday as the crushing heat took the number of first-round retirements to a record 10. Second-seeded Federer had little trouble in seeing off Argentina’s… September 3, 2015 Defending champ sizzles, while Serb overcomes injury Flawless Roger Federer and Novak Djokovic stamped their mark on the Australian Open yesterday, with focused former champion Maria Sharapova also successfully negotiating the first round after her drug ban. Defending champion Federer, rated as favourite to win his 20th grand slam title,… January 17, 2018 ROGER Federer’s enduring class shone through again as the Swiss maestro beat world No 1 Novak Djokovic 6-3 7-5 to win the Dubai Championships for a seventh time on Saturday. The 33-year-old’s serve is the least praised of his repertoire but it was his awesome delivery that blunted Djokovic’s baseline… March 2, 2015