The DA has retained Ward 1 following the highly contested by-election in Nelson Mandela Bay on Wednesday. With a total of 47 67 votes cast, the party received 4 368 votes. Tracy Weise is now the new councillor in Ward 1. DA South West constituency leader Bobby Stevenson said he had no doubt the party would win by a substantial number of votes. “Voters in Ward 1 used this opportunity to send a strong message that they want the DA-led coalition government to keep on making progress in NMBM. “This result is a resounding vote of confidence in our Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, and the DA-led coalition government,” Stevenson said. Stevenson added the ANC and EFF should take note that the results was an indication that the voters soundly rejected the EFF’s plan to topple Mayor Trollip through a vote of no confidence on April 6. With the added councillor, this brings the DA-led coalition seats in council back to 59, after they lost one seat following the axing of their former councillor Rashied Adams in December.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. Port Elizabeth businesswoman Tracy Weise is hoping to use a customer-services- orientated approach to win over thousands of registered voters when the DA vies to take Ward 1 in an upcoming by-election. The DA yesterday announced its candidate for the by-election set for March 7. A vacancy opened for the… January 31, 2018 The Democratic Alliance in the Eastern Cape has announced its candidate for the Ward 1 by-election in March – Tracy Weise. The dealer principle and a director of a major motor dealership, Weise is described by the DA as “a high achiever and leader” who grew up in the party.… January 30, 2018 Relationship with Active United Front crucial to swing hung council While Bitou’s first council meeting is scheduled for today, uncertainty remains who will take control following the recent local government elections which showed that the municipality had yet again become a hung council. While the DA in the region said… August 12, 2016