The body of a Port Elizabeth man who had been missing since February has been found. John du Plessis, 54, disappeared on February 20 when he left his Barbara Avenue home in Bluewater Bay to go for a walk. His body was found on Thursday morning (08/03/18) in a dense section of bushes in the Aloe Nature Reserve near the Swartkops River between Amsterdamhoek and Bluewater Bay. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said police had been searching the nearby area for weeks. “This morning, at about 8.30am, our rescue dog, Misty, located the body deep in the bush,” he said. “At this stage we do not suspect any foul play however the postmortem results will be able to clarify the cause of death.” Du Plessis disappeared on the morning of February 20 and later that day, his wife found a suicide note in the house. An inquest docket has been opened.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. A Port Elizabeth man has been missing for two weeks after he left home and failed to return. John du Plessis,54, has been missing since February 20 after going for a walk from his Barbara Avenue home in Bluewater Bay. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge however confirmed that a suicide… March 1, 2018 The body of an elderly man who had been stabbed several times was found at Brighton Beach yesterday morning. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said Christian Opperman, of Bluewater Bay, had arrived at the beach at about 4am. He parked his car and went for a walk. “He chatted with… April 28, 2017 The body of an elderly man was found at Brighton Beach on Thursday morning. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the man, Christian Opperman of Bluewater Bay, had been stabbed several times. She said according to information, Opperman arrived at the beach at about 4am, parked his car and went… April 27, 2017