Quinton de Kock was found guilty of bringing the game of cricket into disrepute at a hearing in Port Elizabeth last night. But South Africa’s wicketkeeper-batsman will claim a moral victory since he was not the cause of an incident involving Australia’s David Warner during the first test at Kingsmead on Sunday. De Kock was fined 25% of his match fee and given a demerit point by match referee Jeff Crowe. Both players were charged with the same offence after video footage emerged online showing Warner attacking De Kock verbally as the players left the field for tea on the fourth day. In one of the videos Warner can be heard calling De Kock a “f **** ing sook” – an Australian slang term for a crybaby. Most of the rest of what Warner said is inaudible and there would seem to be no video evidence of De Kock saying anything to Warner‚ who is seen being restrained physically by his approaching De Kock. Warner was charged under level two of the code of conduct. He did not contest the matter and‚ yesterday morning‚ was fined 75% of his match fee and slapped with three demerit points – one short of the four points that would have seen him banned for the second test at St George’s Park tomorrow. De Kock’s charge was a level one offence‚ carrying a maximum penalty of a teammates from 50% fine and two demerit points. It is understood De Kock accepted the charge but contested being sanctioned. The South Africans presented two witnesses who were not part of their squad or support staff. The home side have insisted that De Kock had not done or said anything worthy of punishment. “We are contesting level one because we think Quinny didn’t do anything; Quinny wasn’t aggressive‚” South Africa coach Ottis Gibson said at a media conference before the hearing. “The footage showed Quinny walking up the stairs and somebody else being restrained‚ and then Quinny gets a level one. That doesn’t seem fair. “If I am walking‚ trying to get back to my dressingroom‚ and somebody is being restrained, how can you fine me for something?” The hearing‚ held in a conference room at the South Africa team’s hotel‚ was attended by‚ among others‚ De Kock‚ South Africa captain Faf du Plessis‚ Gibson and team manager Mohammed Moosajee‚ and umpire Kumar Dharmasena. Crowe, who also laid the charge, presided, and the hearing started at 5.46pm. The South Africans present left the room at 6.33pm, and Moosajee returned at 6.56pm to receive the verdict. South Africa will be under pressure to level the four-match series after losing by 118 runs at Kingsmead. – TimesLIVE <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">&#65279;</span> Fast bowler plans to build on prolific Newlands record with return to action Quinton de Kock and Australia’s vice-captain David Warner have been charged in connection with the stairwell altercation that saw the first test in the series between South Africa and Australia end on a bad-tempered note. But it… March 7, 2018 Everything suggests there will be no shortage of drama when South Africa and Australia get to grips in the second cricket test starting in Port Elizabeth on Friday. South Africa may have lost the opening test in Durban, but they showed enough fight in the second innings to indicate it… March 7, 2018 Proteas batsman Quinton de Kock will be given the five-match ODI series against India to rediscover his form. The South Africans take on India in the first of five limited over games at the Kingsmead Stadium in Durban tomorrow and De Kock is expected to open the batting with Hashim… January 31, 2018