Grindrod Bank announced on Wednesday that as of April 1‚ the South African Security Agency (Sassa) will no longer carry the cost of bank accounts of recipients – putting the burden of those costs onto grant recipients. Grindrod provides banking services for Sassa grant recipients‚ paying 17-million grants to 10.6-million cardholders‚ amounting to R11-billion per month. The bank said the decision by Sassa not to carry the cost of bank accounts meant all beneficiaries using banks to access their grants would be liable for the costs of banking fees. However‚ beneficiaries who utilised the Pay Point and biometric Point of Sale (POS) devices would continue to be subsidised by Sassa. The bank said cash withdrawals at Grindrod ATMs would cost R4 plus R1.50 per R100 or part thereof. Cash withdrawals at other banks’ ATMs would cost R5 plus R1.50c per R100 or part thereof. Meanwhile‚ Sassa announced that social grants payments for April would start on Sunday for those who receive their payments through ATMs and merchants. It said payment at Sassa pay points would start next Tuesday. This aspect of cash payments‚ which is administered by Cash Paymaster Services‚ was extended for the next six months by the Constitutional Court on March 23. In with the new‚ out with the old. The SA Social Services Agency and the SA Post Office have reached a landmark agreement to usher in a new social grant payment system that will see recipients getting their grants from banks‚ various merchants and spaza shops. The agreement was finalised… December 10, 2017 Social grant beneficiaries who withdraw their money from Sassa cash paypoints will only be able to do so from Monday. However, all other beneficiaries could rest assured they would receive their money today, Sassa Eastern Cape head Sakhumzi Yawa said yesterday. Yawa said because April 1 fell on a Saturday,… April 1, 2017 The Reserve Bank held numerous meetings with the South African Security Agency (Sassa) and the Department of Social Development to discuss options for the payment of social grants‚ the head of the bank's National Payment System department Tim Masela said on Wednesday. Masela made a presentation to Parliament's social development… March 1, 2017