Two men wanted for a robbery in Walmer township over the weekend have been arrested. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said that the men, aged 25 and 35, were arrested at different houses in Walmer township on Tuesday. “It is alleged that on Sunday at about 6:30pm a man was busy inside his spaza shop in Bhobhoyi street in Walmer when five men entered. “One was armed with a knife and stabbed the man on his head and shoulder. “They helped themselves to cash from the till and some cigarettes before running off,” she said. “On Tuesday members from the Walmer Trio Task Team followed up on information on the whereabouts of the suspects. “Two suspects were arrested at their different houses in Walmer location.” Naidu said that in the one house, a long barrel revolver, which was loaded with 4 rounds of ammunition, was also seized. The men were arrested for robbery and attempted murder, however; one man will face an additional charge of illegal possession of a firearm. The suspects will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. A suspected house robber was arrested early on Tuesday morning in 9th Avenue, Walmer. This after a fitting description of the suspect was provided to the police by a 77-year-old Walmer resident. It is alleged the robbery took place at about 03:00 on Tuesday morning, two men broke into a house… January 2, 2018 A suspect in the brutal hammer murders of an elderly Schoenmakerskop couple, as well as a Forest Hill man, has been arrested. The 21-year-old Walmer township man, who is believed to belong to the gang allegedly involved in both attacks in Port Elizabeth, was detained yesterday afternoon. The others are… October 27, 2017 Gareth Wilson ONE of the five suspected armed robbers involved in the coin shop heist inside the Walmer Park shopping centre last week was arrested yesterday afternoon. The 30-year-old man, from Walmer township, was apprehended after police received a tip-off and description of his car. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse… July 19, 2012