 A new paperback anthology The Meaning of Michelle gives a sparkling range of views on the former First Lady of America, with 16 writers outlining how her journey has inspired them. Many of the contributors are – like their subject Michelle LaVaughn Robinson Obama – also African-American women and they record what this has meant to them to have her in the White House. Veronica Chambers, an author best known for her memoir Mama’s Girl and who writes often about her own Afro-Latina heritage, has edited the collection. To most South Africans, Michelle Obama is famous, mainly thanks to her partnership with her husband Barack Obama, United States president from 2008 to 2016. However, this collection shows how and why she is a force in her own right as well. And, while commentators often have delved into Obama’s fashion appeal – including her gorgeously toned arms – and attributes as a role model, far fewer have looked at the meaning she has had for black American culture. The preface to The Meaning of Michelle by Ava DuVernay sums up her appeal in this respect: “Even after eight years of watching them daily in the press, the fact that the most powerful man in the world is a black man is still breathtaking to me. “The fact that he goes home to a tight-knit, loving family headed by a black woman is soul-stirring. That woman is Michelle. Michelle. “That name now carries a whole world of meaning.” However, “Mrs O” was much more than a black icon, mom-in-chief and stylish “sista” – she defied numerous stereotypes and brought not only grace and class but also a fierce intelligence to her position as First Lady of the United States. As another of the writers Chirlane McCray notes, “we all benefit when our elected leaders are blessed with equally strong partners” – and there is a message for South Africa there. Michelle Obama's forthcoming memoir, "Becoming," is set for worldwide release on Nov. 13, at which time the former first lady will embark on a global tour to promote the book, publisher Penguin Random House said on Sunday. The volume fulfills half of the deal the company reached with former U.S.… February 26, 2018 As the new President of the United States gets ready to take office, let’s take this opportunity to remember Barack‚ Michelle‚ Sasha as well as Malia Obama. As much as we’re in South Africa and everything‚ a part of us is not quite prepared to handle a White House without… November 9, 2016 Groomed to perfection yet rarely heard in public, Melania Trump is an enigma -- a first lady whose opinions, marriage and goals remain a mystery to millions of Americans. She is without question a unique first lady: a former model who once posed nude in her husband's private jet; the… January 16, 2018