Long-jumper Luvo Manyonga has split from coach Neil Cornelius. Together since 2015‚ they won the Olympic silver medal in 2016‚ the world championships last year and earlier this month world indoor championship silver. They continued working together after Manyonga relocated from Pretoria to Port Elizabeth at the end of last year. But Manyonga on Tuesday announced they were splitting‚ although he has yet to name a replacement. “He is taking his time to consider all options and opportunities before deciding on his team to take him to Tokyo 2020 [Olympics]‚” agent Lee-Roy Newton said in a statement. In the same statement‚ Manyonga thanked Cornelius for mentoring him to his successes‚ which included winning the Diamond League. “I could not have achieved what I have without his encouragement. However‚ after such great success‚ I have had to take stock of where I am and look to find new ways to push the boundaries of performance and continued improvement. “With this in mind‚ I decided to move to Port Elizabeth last year to further my athletics career closer to my home. Considering the change in location and my practical‚ everyday requirements‚ I have made a decision to change my performance team and explore other coaching opportunities.” Long-jump wizard Luvo Manyonga flew out of Johannesburg on Tuesday night looking to add the world indoor title to the outdoor crown he won last year. Manyonga‚ who has not been beaten in a competition since finishing second by one centimetre at the 2016 Olympic Games‚ spearheads a small South… March 1, 2018 Port Elizabeth-based long jumper Luvo Manyonga will go to the IAAF World Indoor Championships in Birmingham‚ England‚ in March beaming with confidence after winning big at the South African Sport Awards on Sunday night. The Olympic silver medallist walked away with the Sports Star of the Year trophy at the… November 14, 2017 World long-jump champion and Olympic silver medallist Luvo Manyonga is leaving his Tuks base to move to Port Elizabeth‚ the university’s sports body said yesterday. “It has been an exciting two years for everyone at TuksSport who has been involved with Manyonga‚” TuksSport acting chief executive Toby Sutcliffe said. “Together… October 18, 2017