A Port Elizabeth man has been missing for two weeks after he left home and failed to return. John du Plessis,54, has been missing since February 20 after going for a walk from his Barbara Avenue home in Bluewater Bay. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge however confirmed that a suicide note had been found inside the house. Beetge said that du Plessis left his house at 10am but his wife found the note at about 2pm. “The police were alerted that afternoon and launched a search in the immediate surroundings,” he said. The police helicopter as well as the Search and Rescue K9 unit searched into the late hours of the evening and the following day. “The dogs did not pick up on any scent and a search of the area did not turn up anything.” Beetge said that the cellphone was tracked by police and was last shown to be in the Swartkops area – before if went dead. Officials confirm that the signal was last seen as being near the Swartkops Bridge area. “At this stage we have exhausted all our resources in the search for Du Plessis.” Any person who might have information can contact investigating officer, Warrant Officer Mzameni Bobi at 073 086 3801.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Frail man runs away after being taken to police The mentally frail man who vanished without trace after he was allegedly forgotten at the Provincial Hospital by a Department of Health patient transport driver, has been found – only to disappear again. Wandile Nyanya, 55, from Port Alfred, had been… January 10, 2018 Mother and daughters killed execution-style IN a horrific and puzzling triple murder, a Port Elizabeth mother and her teenage daughters – shot in an execution-style hit – appear to have tried to barricade themselves into their home using a couch. The victims were killed in their Govan Mbeki township home… January 20, 2016 Port Elizabeth police are searching for a 55-year-old woman who disappeared after a murder in Coega. The body of Zwelinzima Jantjies, 52, was found at Coega Farm opposite the Coega Hotel at about 7am on Wednesday. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said a postmortem indicated he had been killed by… November 16, 2017