Bus company Vaal Maseru has sent heartfelt condolences to the families of the passengers who died when their bus was involved in a horrific accident between Ngcobo and Elliot on Wednesday morning. Ten passengers including three children died when the bus they were travelling in overturned in Satan’s Neck. Jaco van den Berg of Vaal Maseru said their thoughts were with the families of the deceased‚ “during this difficult time”. He said a delegation from the company was travelling to the Eastern Cape. “We have been informed that there are people who unfortunately lost their lives during the accident‚” he said. Van den Berg said there did not have the details about what caused the accident. “At this stage I cannot comment on what really happened. We are still waiting to receive a detailed report‚ but from what I have heard it is a very serious accident and lives have been lost‚” he said. He said the incident was very unfortunate and that the company was in a process of engaging with family members of all those involved. Van den Berg said the company would do all it could to help the families of the deceased. Department of health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the death toll was now at 11. “Three patients are being freed using jaws of life‚” he said. He said emergency personnel would use a tow truck to move the wreckage‚ “and look for more survivors or bodies under the bus”‚ he said. – DispatchLIVE Kathryn Kimberley AS sports equipment, bags, food and even a small teddy bear lay scattered across the bloodied tar of the R31, the close-knit community of Cradock were yesterday struggling to come to terms with a tragic accident in which 17 people were killed at the weekend. The much-loved principal… July 23, 2012 A number of people have been killed in an accident while some are still trapped inside a bus near Ngcobo. The bus involved in an accident this morning was not on fire, according to health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo. Earlier, the department said the bus was on fire. “I spoke… March 28, 2018 Four people died and 12 were injured in a late night accident involving a Toyota Avanza and an Algoa Bus on Tuesday. The bus also crashed into the Uitenhage Traffic Department, causing damage worth about R150 000. The accident happened at about 11.10pm on Tuesday when, police spokeswoman Warrant Officer… January 15, 2015