The Three Pools day camping venue near Willows has been closed until further notice after a mystery infection caused more than 100 pupils from a Port Elizabeth school to fall ill and break out in itchy bumps last week. Two of the Paterson High School pupils – cousins Mekayla Jaggers, 15, and Chloe Carels, 13 – were taken to hospital after violent bouts of vomiting. The affected pupils also had fever, neck pain and nausea. Two weeks ago, a teacher and pupils from Chapman High School also fell ill after a visit to Three Pools. Chapman High principal William Abrahams said an Eastern Cape Department of Health official had visited the school on Monday in an attempt to establish the source of the infection. Chloe’s mother, Megan, confirmed that Chloe and Mekayla had returned to school yesterday to write exams despite still suffering from itchy bumps and feeling weak. They were still awaiting blood test results from Livingstone Hospital. Provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said workers at the Three Pools resort had complained about the same symptoms about two weeks ago. The Department of Health, after a visit to the resort by officials, advised that all outings to Three Pools be suspended until the cause of the outbreak was known. It also recommends in its report that soil samples be taken from Three Pools and tested. Health district manager Maureen Botha said her department was conducting several tests in consultation with the municipality. “At this stage, I am unable to confirm the exact cause [of the infection] as we are still busy with our investigation and running several tests,” she said. “We should receive the results soon, then we will be able to provide definitive answers.” Paterson High School principal Sivan Pillay said most of the pupils had returned to school yesterday. “Our concern is that there is no cause for this infection so we don’t know the severity, whether it will recur or the extent of infection,” he said. “We are still waiting for feedback from the department and municipal officials, as well as the blood test results of two pupils and a teacher. “For now, we are just taking the antibiotics and hoping for the best.” Nelson Mandela Bay municipal spokesman Kupido Baron confirmed that the resort, which is managed by the municipality, had been closed since Friday as a precautionary measure. “Groups with reservations were advised of the closure until further notice to enable a comprehensive investigation,” he said.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. Almost 100 pupils come down with fever and red lumps after resort trip, writes Tremaine van Aardt What was meant to be a fun outing for Paterson High School pupils turned to misery after almost 100 pupils contracted an infection which saw their upper bodies riddled with lumpy protrusions. About… March 17, 2018 EASTERN Cape health authorities are testing chocolates sold by a school vendor after nearly 50 pupils at Peddie’s Nathaniel Pamla High School were treated for vomiting and runny tummies last week. About 48 pupils were taken to nearby Nompumelelo Hospital, where they were treated for stomach-related symptoms on Friday after… February 24, 2015 THE principal at Port Elizabeth’s worst-performing school broke down yesterday as he told members of the provincial legislature how despite efforts by teachers, pupils failed to make the grade. January 25, 2014