Four men accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius will spend another month behind bars until their trial gets under way. Vernon Witbooi‚ Eben van Niekerk‚ Geraldo Parsons and Nashville Julius appeared in the High Court in Cape Town on Friday for a pre-trial hearing. But the case was postponed to April 20 because the defence said it had not yet received all the state’s evidence against the men. They are accused of raping and murdering 21-year-old Cornelius after they hijacked and kidnapped her and her friend‚ Cheslin Marsh‚ in the early hours of May 27‚ 2017. Marsh was stabbed and hit with a brick but managed to find help after he was left for dead in Kraaifontein‚ 15km west of Stellenbosch. Cornelius’s head was crushed by a rock after she was stabbed several times. The accused are thought to have played different roles in the crimes. They are also accused of attacking two other women later that morning using Cornelius’s blue Citi Golf. Their trial is expected to take between three and six weeks. The four men accused of the rape and murder of Stellenbosch student Hannah Cornelius seemed more concerned about wooing their lovers than the ten charges they face. Geraldo Parsons smiled and blew kisses at his girlfriend after he heard that the case was postponed‚ yet again‚ to January 25. He… December 13, 2017 When Averal Fortuin heard Cheslin Marsh’s cries in his front yard on Saturday morning‚ he thought that it was “just another drunk intruder”. After Fortuin and his wife Margaret‚ came out of their home in Bernardino Heights to investigate the noise and saw the blood drenched Stellenbosch student pinned to… May 30, 2017 Murdered Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius's autistic brother “will never stop asking when she's coming back”. Her uncle Dries Cornelius said her parents were “devastated”. Their 21-year-old daughter's body was found on Saturday morning just outside Stellenbosch. It has emerged that she had also been raped. Stellenbosch students are shocked… May 29, 2017