After eight months in the driver’s seat of the breakfast show‚ Tumi Morake has announced that she has decided to leave Jacaranda FM. The station shared the announcement on its website yesterday morning. “My performance career is taking a new direction and unfortunately radio‚ with the time and energy it requires at this level‚ doesn’t fit into those plans. I had a great time and learnt many valuable lessons‚ yes‚ even when the pawpaw hit the fan. I wouldn’t change it for the world‚” said Tumi. The statement revealed that Tumi plans to take a short break to spend time with her family and thereafter focus on her stand-up comedy‚ and other projects. “This was not an easy decision for me at all. The timing was just not right for this relationship‚ it is like leaving a lover that you are still in love with. I really hope that fate will bring us together again one day.” Jacaranda FM’s general manager Kevin Fine said they were sad to see Tumi go and was glad to have worked with her. Tumi’s last day on the breakfast show will be March 9‚ thereafter it will continue to be hosted by Martin Bester‚ Liesl Laurie and Elma Smit. The first lady of South African comedy, Tumi Morake, will be in Port Elizabeth next week as part of her South African tour with her Tumi or Not Tumi show. Taking her comedy to the people, Morake is embarking on her first official South African tour and entertaining audiences across… February 25, 2017 Tumi Morake used her personal experience and disagreements with her husband to share advice with listeners on how to work out their own differences. During her breakfast show on Jacaranda FM‚ Tumi‚ who is married to actor Mpho Osei-Tutu, used a recent argument with her husband as an example. “When… October 11, 2017 SHE is known as the first lady of South African comedy and brought the funny this past weekend when she performed at the Kings and Queens of Comedy show at the Boardwalk in Summerstrand. Now the former presenter of Our Perfect Wedding, Tumi Morake was a hit when she appeared… June 1, 2016