In a last-ditch effort to win over votes, political parties vying for the vacant councillor position in Ward 1 hit the campaign trail yesterday in the hope of winning the highly contested ward. The EFF was handing out pamphlets ahead of the tomorrow’s by-election. Special votes will be cast today. The ANC spent the afternoon putting up posters in the hope of being more visible, and the DA held a meeting with residents of the city’s second-biggest ward at Summerstrand’s Freedom Church. The DA’s PE South West constituency leader, Bobby Stevenson, called on all the party’s supporters to come out and vote tomorrow. “A strong win will send a powerful message that people want the DA-led coalition government and want it to continue making the changes it’s been implementing,” Stevenson said. ANC communications officer Lufefe Mkutu said the party wanted to send a clear message that the party was fielding a young person to reaffirm that the world was getting younger and it was up to the younger generation to prove itself. “We’re committed to working with the people of Ward 1 and we want to bring back its vibrancy and include them in governing the ward,” he said. EFF conveners reiterated that their candidate Awethu Fatyela was capable and ready to lead. EFF convener Simphiwe Daku said: “The EFF is their last hope for accountability of public representatives.” COPE’s Rashied Adams was not taking part in the last-minute campaign effort. Adams, who previously led the ward on the DA’s ticket but was fired, said he was practically done with his campaigning. He said he had overwhelming support. Nelson Mandela Bay IEC supervisor Crosby Bacela said 164 voters had registered for special votes today. “Of these, 107 will be home visits and 57 will be voting station visits.” The voting stations are the Cheshire Home, Mance Karate Club, Riverside Tents and Elukholweni Farm School. Port Elizabeth businesswoman Tracy Weise is hoping to use a customer-services- orientated approach to win over thousands of registered voters when the DA vies to take Ward 1 in an upcoming by-election. The DA yesterday announced its candidate for the by-election set for March 7. A vacancy opened for the… January 31, 2018 By-election to replace sacked councillor The race for one of Port Elizabeth’s biggest wards is hotting up, with the ANC, DA and EFF joining the fray. The Ward 1 by-election will take place on March 7, with other parties still having until February 12 to request to contest. While the… January 25, 2018 The ANC has so far put on a strong showing in parts of Nelson Mandela Bay – snatching three wards from the DA in Port Elizabeth’s northern areas and Colchester – despite losing Kouga Municipality to the DA. Preliminary results released today show that the ANC also won back two… August 4, 2016