When acclaimed guitarist Guy Buttery made history as the youngest South African Music Awards nominee at the age of 18 in 2002, it was the first achievement of many to follow. The KwaZulu-Natal native’s career has skyrocketed since then, earning him numerous awards, performances at international stages and festivals, and collaborations with fellow musical legends Dan Patlansky, Nibs van der Spuy and Vusi Mahlasela. Following his most recent record-breaking accomplishment – the Standard Bank Young Artist Award commonly won by classical musicians – Buttery is treating the Eastern Cape to a five-show tour from Tuesday. A: I’ve moved around KZN quite a bit but I’ve always been predominantly on the North Coast. I’m all over the place a lot of the time, but when I am not doing concerts I am back in the province. A: I think it evolved quite organically in many ways; I was basically doing concerts on the weekends in high school and I ended up getting more bookings and it just grew and happened like that. A: I probably did not take it that seriously at the time because I find the idea of music competitions unusual. I believe music is something personal to be enjoyed and interpreted differently, so putting it on some kind of competitive level probably never really made sense to me then and now. A: Generally working with other people and communicating this universal language in a non-vocal form is always a beautiful experience. A: I certainly was not expecting it because it has been awarded to classical musicians since before I was even born. But [the change] speaks volumes for the award and the committee itself that they are honouring musicians outside of the classical world. A: I am busy with a project with Indian classical vocalist Kanada Narahari that we are taking on the road. A: I will be bringing a few new things and a few old things. Every night is going to be different but I am hoping to bring some fresh energy to all the shows. Buttery will perform at: Pericles Anetos MUSICIAN Guy Buttery's eclectic sound returns to Port Elizabeth on Wednesday August 7 for a performance at the Friendly Stranger in Bridge Street. The award-wining fingerstyle guitarist who is on tour promoting his new album, Live in KwaZulu, which is a live performance CD recorded over two nights… August 2, 2013 TWO gifted Eastern Cape performers are among six young South Africans who this week were named recipients of the highly sought-after Standard Bank Young Artist Award. Opera singer Musa Ngqungwana, who grew up in the Port Elizabeth township of Zwide, is the winner of the music award, while East London's… October 30, 2014 Music lovers are in for a rare treat when acclaimed British saxophonist Andrew Young, an international recording artist and performer, takes to the stage at the Savoy Theatre in Port Elizabeth next weekend. Young, who will perform at the theatre in Adcockvale next Sunday as part of his South African… February 12, 2015