Several packages were stolen from Walmer Post Office during a burglary between Saturday evening and Monday morning. According to police, the padlock on the front gate of the post office – located at the corner of 8th Avenue and Water Road – was broken during the burglary. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the discovery was made by the manager who arrived at the Post Office at 6:30am on Monday. “The incident must have happened out of operating hours between Saturday evening and Monday morning. The front gate padlock was broken and the front door of the building forced open with a crow bar. The thieves then ransacked the Port Office and managed to open three safes that were located in different offices,” she said. “The safes were either left unlocked or the keys were left inside the office and found by the thieves.” Naidu said the thieves are believed to have ransacked the Post Office storage area after stealing an undisclosed amount of money. “It is believed that several parcels were stolen during the burglary. The staff are now going to have to do an inventory for us to establish which packages exactly were stolen,” she added. Asked about evidence gathered on the scene, Naidu confirmed that the suspects had left the crow bar on the scene. “Our forensic unit has been to the scene and has gathered evidence that could assist with identifying the culprits,” she said. Asked why the security alarm did not trigger, Naidu said that would form part of the investigation. A case of burglary is being investigated. Appeal for special police unit to probe burglaries Almost R2-million worth of the latest model Apple cellphones and gadgets were stolen from the iStore at Walmer Park when thieves broke into a shop via the ceiling some time between Sunday afternoon and yesterday morning. Police said the burglary at the… January 10, 2017 Angle grinder thieves hit PE biscuit factory THE brazen gang armed with angle grinders has struck again – this time at a biscuit factory in Kensington, Port Elizabeth. The gang, who have been running amok in Nelson Mandela Bay for several months, have broken into more than 100 businesses and… April 18, 2016 Police to step up patrols after two burgled and one robbed Police will randomly patrol schools in Nelson Mandela Bay following two burglaries and a robbery at Walmer schools this week. The latest incident saw a Victoria Park Grey Primary School teacher open the doors to the school yesterday to discover… January 20, 2017