Even if Athol Trollip survives the motion tomorrow, we as the EFF will come for him again and again until he falls. “Once the EFF pronounces on you, you must know that you are going.” This was the bold statement made by EFF leader Julius Malema at a packed Nangoza Jebe Hall in New Brighton earlier tonight ahead of Thursday’s motion of no confidence against Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Trollip. “We don’t stop. Tomorrow, we are going to attempt to remove Trollip and if we fail, we’ll come back again until we collapse him and teach him a lesson. ” We’ve taken a decision and there’s no retreat about it,” Malema said. “How many motions of no confidence did [former South African president Jacob] Zuma [survive]? Where is Zuma today? Who is Trollip who survives on some 50/50 arrangement? Zuma had 60% plus support but when the EFF said come here, he ran away,” Malema said. Malema said the previous attempts to remove Trollip had been orchestrated by “Mickey Mouse” parties. “Trollip, today, tomorrow or the day after it doesn’t matter. We have declared that you are going and it will not change,” Malema said. Malema said should Trollip survive tomorrow’s motion they would in the future struggle to pass any budget items as the EFF would continuously vote against them. More on this story in The Herald tomorrow. The DA and its coalition partners will survive the flurry of motions to dismantle the entire political leadership structure in Nelson Mandela Bay at tomorrow’s all-important council meeting. This was the message from speakers at the DA’s #SaveNMB rally in front of the Port Elizabeth City Hall on Wednesday. Scores… March 28, 2018 Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema will be in Port Elizabeth on Wednesday, a day before his party’s motion of no confidence against Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip. Malema will address residents at the Nangoza Jebe Hall in New Brighton at 4pm. “We are speaking to the people of… March 26, 2018 The EFF will not divert from its plan to table a motion of no confidence against Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip next month. This is according to EFF national spokesman Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, responding to Trollip’s letter to EFF leader Julius Malema inviting him to visit the Bay. In an… March 14, 2018