A well-known Port Elizabeth businesswoman was shot by an intruder on a farm outside Hankey at the weekend while desperately trying to shield her three young children from the gunman. The woman, 44, bleeding and in pain, was then forced to drive her attacker to an ATM in the town, where she seized the chance to escape while he was withdrawing money from her bank account. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said “a person of interest” had been taken in for questioning yesterday morning. The drama on the farm began shortly before midnight on Friday. “The [attacker] gained entry to the house after firing several shots through a glass door [at the house],” Swart said. The woman was shot in the lower body while trying to protect her three young children, who were not harmed physically. Her husband was not home at the time. “The suspect took the woman in her vehicle to an ATM in town to withdraw cash. “While the suspect was busy withdrawing cash, the woman managed to drive off in her car to a farm in the area, [where she] alerted the police.” The man had not taken anything at the house, but withdrew an undisclosed sum of money. Swart said the woman was treated at a Port Elizabeth hospital and discharged yesterday. “The Hankey police are investigating a case of housebreaking with the intent to commit a crime, attempted murder and robbery aggravating.” She said further charges could be added after police had taken an official statement from the woman yesterday. She would not confirm the woman’s name until the charges were finalised, but it has since been established that she is a businesswoman who commutes between her Hankey home and her business in Port Elizabeth.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Hankey police are searching for a suspect who allegedly broke into a house late on Friday after shooting several times through a glass door. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Start said a 44-year-old woman was injured in the process. "The suspect took the female in her vehicle to an ATM in… March 24, 2018 Three men have been arrested for allegedly committing fraud in Walmer. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse Van Rensburg said the three – between the ages of 20 and 30 – allegedly distracted a 39-year-old woman withdrawing money from an ATM in Main Road, Walmer at about 2.15pm on Wednesday (05/04/17).… April 6, 2017 Two suspected robbers hiding out in Port Elizabeth were arrested just hours after robbing a woman inside her Uitenhage home yesterday. The bust came after detectives tracked two of the five gunmen to a house in Bethelsdorp. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said detectives had worked around the clock to… November 10, 2016