The South African Police Service at Mount Road have once again warned social media users to make absolutely sure of their information before posting it online. This warning is issued after a voice note was transmitted on a chat group by a concerned mother who indicated that a strange woman attempted to lure her child into her vehicle. Police have since been inundated with messages from people wanting to know whether such information was true. In the voice note, which The Herald has received, the mother claims that a woman in a silver vehicle tried to lure her children into the car as they were walking home from school in a Port Elizabeth suburb, accompanied by a nanny. Police have interviewed the mother concerned and have also viewed the CCTV footage and the perception has somewhat differed from the original voice note. The mentioned vehicle or incident could not be traced on the CCTV footage as the encounter may have taken place outside the camera’s view. An urgent appeal is made to people who suspect a crime may have been committed or witness anything suspicious, to contact the police first to verify such information. In cases where children are involved, the Family Violence Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit (FCS) may be contacted as well as the sector manager of your particular area. “Discuss your concerns and let us together make informed decisions before posting on social media,” police advised. This is the second incident where information may have been misconstrued without verifying the facts. In May 2017, an innocent Uber driver was the target of social media users. “Police would like to commend the public on their vigilance regarding safety while at the same time we must be cautious how information is relayed on social media without verification. Distortion of facts can have dire consequences and cause unnecessary panic and mayhem in the community. “Social media is an important communication platform and assist  police in combatting crime and arresting criminals.” The Democratic Alliance (DA) will on Thursday be at the Grahamstown Police Station for an “unscheduled visit” to investigate claims of heavy-handedness during student protests. The party said it is “concerned with increasing evidence of excessive force used by members of the South African Police Service (SAPS) at Rhodes University”.… April 21, 2016 Weeping in the arms of a social worker, a 19-month-old toddler watched as his mother was arrested for allegedly trying to sell him for R5 000 on Thursday. Police arrested the 20-year-old Imbali mother at the KFC in Chief Albert Luthuli Road after she allegedly posted an advert on online… October 16, 2015 Police are appealing to the public for assistance after a woman and her three-year-old daughter were brutally beaten in their Port Elizabeth home. According to police, the 47-year-old mother and her daughter were found with multiple head injuries. Concerned neighbours went to the victims’ Booysen Park home shortly after 6pm… June 4, 2017