Let the hunt begin! The Easter bunny is coming to visit Holmeleigh Farm tomorrow for The Herald Easter on the Farm. The Easter egg hunts will start at 10am until 1pm. Bring your Easter baskets for some egg-stra special treats. Gates open at 9am. MasterCars on Moffett will provide a shuttle service at the farm. There will be entertainment for the whole family, including live music, giveaways, food trucks and rides for the kids. There will be a Easter market in the barn – so come support small, local businesses – and a bar facility for the adults. Come cheer on participants in the potjiekos competition as they battle it out for bragging rights and awesome prizes. There will also be an Easter bonnet parade at 2.30pm – so kids, get creative with those hats and you could win amazing prizes! There is also a Cape St Francis Resort family getaway prize up for grabs. The entry form is in The Herald today on page 11. The entry box will be next to the stage at the event. Included in our programme this year is bubble soccer. It’s like playing regular soccer, except you are encased in an inflatable torus, similar to a zorb ball, which covers the player’s upper body and head. Players compete in a hilarious way of bumping their opponents in an attempt to gain possession of the ball and score a goal. The bubble soccer is for free on the day. So bring your family and friends and come have a ball with us! Popular facepainting artist Selmarie will also be there to paint the kids (and adults) faces from 12 until 4pm. This is for free. She will be situated next to the Herald tent. Jaques Arendt will be the MC for the day. Jazz artist Michelle Mattheus will be on at 10am and young talents 5th Avenue will be on from 12 to 1pm. Lara B will have a fun sing-along programme for the kids at 2pm. Tickets cost R50 a person, and children four and under get in for free. And to avoid having to queue, rather buy your tickets online at www.quicket.co.za Included in your ticket price is access to the Holmeleigh touchfarm. Visit The Herald’s Facebook page and join The Herald’s Easter on the Farm event in our events section for more information and regular updates. https://www.facebook.com/events/ 166272220813962/ Easter is just around the corner and to celebrate The Herald is having a family fun day at Holmeleigh Farmyard in Kragga Kamma on March 24. The inaugural Herald Easter on the Farm will have an action-packed kids’ zone with inflatables, rides, games and face-painting. There will also be several… February 28, 2018 We are gearing up for the inaugural The Herald Easter on the Farm at Holmeleigh Farmyard next Saturday. Gates open at 9am. We are expecting a great turnout, so to alleviate congestion, MasterCars on Moffett will provide a shuttle service. There will be entertainment for the whole family, including live… March 16, 2018 Easter weekend is a great way to kick-start the first school holiday of the year. After a long first term, most parents will welcome the well earned break from routine and word sums. Nelson Mandela Bay residents will be treated to a wide range of activities that are guaranteed to… March 30, 2015