In a world fraught with nationalist fervour, where moderates are about as scarce these days as Polokwane polony on a supermarket shelf, who would have ventured a thawing of relations between the US and North Korea to the extent that both nations’ leaders have agreed to an historic meeting? Even this newspaper has remained on guard despite backing the stunning detente that brought the divided Korean peninsula together for the 2018 Winter Olympics. As welcome as that moment was, given the heightened war talk months before the sporting spectacle, there was nagging doubt about the sincerity of it all. Would the goodwill survive the Olympics? Indeed, it has, with North Korea’s dynastic dictator Kim Jong-un last week hosting a delegation from the South, where, it was reported, he expressed a wish to meet Donald Trump, a request since accepted by the US president, who tweeted about “the great progress being made” on the issue. Officials say the summit will take place before the end of May, principally because Kim Jong-un raised the prospect of ditching his country’s nuclear ambitions should all threats to his nation’s sovereignty be removed. He has agreed to suspend missile tests as well. In the meantime, Trump’s administration will keep the pressure on with sanctions, suggesting they, too, are not completely sold on North Korea’s overtures. It is a long way from the personal insults both men traded and so begs the obvious question: why now? Perhaps, by isolating the regime so effectively, the US has forced North Korea to buy time or genuinely seek to reset its domestic and global agenda. Trump won’t want egg on his face, so until their meeting, the work that happens behind the scenes will make or break what Trump hopes will be “the greatest deal” of all. North Korea must stop conducting nuclear tests before the United States would enter into any talks with the isolated Pyongyang regime, US ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said Sunday. "They have to stop testing. They have to be willing to talk about banning their nuclear weapons. Those things… January 8, 2018 North Korea said it would reopen a long-closed border hotline with South Korea on Wednesday, hours after U.S. President Donald Trump appeared to mock the North's leader by saying he has a "bigger and more powerful" nuclear button than Kim Jong Un. The North's unscheduled statement, read out on state… January 3, 2018 North Korea, which this month threatened to carry out a fourth nuclear test, may be closer than previously thought to putting a nuclear warhead on a missile some experts say, making a mockery of years of UN sanctions aimed at curbing such a programme. North Korea has long boasted of… May 20, 2014