Former president Jacob Zuma has undertaken to pay back personally the millions of rands spent by the taxpayer to defend his court cases related to corruption charges against him should he lose. This was disclosed in the National Assembly by President Cyril Ramaphosa during his first oral question-and-answer session with MPs‚ during which opposition parties forced him to defend the decision to provide legal aid to his predecessor. Responding to a question by EFF leader Julius Malema on how much had been spent on Zuma’s legal fees since 2009 and which policy had informed that decision‚ Ramaphosa said the government had spent R15.3-million on court cases related to the withdrawal of criminal charges against Zuma between 2006 and 2009. He said this was based on the advice from the Department of Justice and the Presidency after Zuma undertook to pay back the money should he not defeat the charges against him. But Malema was not impressed with the answer‚ saying it did not include other legal cases in which the taxpayer had footed his bill, such as litigation on the Nkandla matter and his court challenges against the public protector’s state of capture report. Malema put it to Ramaphosa that with those two cases and many others factored‚ his estimate was that the government has spent more than R64-million in courts in defending Zuma. “The amount you’re pointing at‚ we don’t think it includes cases like Nkandla case‚ cases like the public protector case [in] which the court was very clear that he must [pay] from his personal pocket and he’s appealing that. “So if you were to take all these cases . . . that amount in our calculations we’re sitting at almost R64-million which has been paid for the former president‚ the delinquent himself‚” Malema said. Ramaphosa said the R15.3-million he had presented was what the “the Department of Justice has been able to collate up to now”. – TimesLIVE Could South Africa know tomorrow just how much taxpayers have paid for former President Jacob Zuma's legal battles? In a word: yes. President Cyril Ramaphosa will on Wednesday face questions from EFF leader Julius Malema about just how much Zuma's personal legal fees have cost the state. And in questions… March 13, 2018 EFF president Julius Malema on Tuesday apologised for maligning former presidents Thabo Mbeki and Nelson Mandela, saying President Jacob Zuma had misled him. ''We were misled by this man, the president of the Republic of South Africa,'' said Malema, once Zuma's biggest cheerleader. With Zuma chuckling while Malema spoke during… February 16, 2016 President Cyril Ramaphosa will on Wednesday appear before the National Assembly for his first oral question and answer session since Parliament elected him as president of the country in February‚ and echoes of #paybackthemoney will reverberate for some observers when Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema stands up. Malema will… March 13, 2018