South African Revenue Service (SARS) commissioner Tom Moyane could find himself out of a job in a matter of days. Business Day understands that the issue of Moyane’s removal from the tax agency is set to be put to the Cabinet and that his departure is “imminent“. This comes as Moyane‚ in a hastily convened media briefing on Wednesday‚ announced that his second-in-charge‚ Jonas Makwakwa‚ had resigned from SARS for “personal reasons“. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced during his maiden state of the nation address an inquiry into the running of SARS‚ but insiders said that Moyane’s handling of the Makwakwa matter could see him out of office even before the inquiry begins. It is understood that there are discussions taking place about an “interim commissioner” to take over from Moyane‚ with speculation that former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas could take up this post. Chairman of Parliament’s portfolio committee on finance Yunus Carrim‚ reacting to Makwakwa’s resignation‚ expressed concern about the “unacceptable way” SARS had managed the matter. Read more at Business Day.  Former SARS spokesman Adrian Lackay has lost his application at the Commission for Conciliation‚ Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) to change his resignation to constructive dismissal. Lackay worked at SARS from September 2003 until he resigned on February 19 2015. He was earning R1.45m annually when he resigned and wanted this… December 9, 2017 Commissioner of the South African Revenue Service (SARS) Tom Moyane has again denied laying charges against former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan. In court papers filed in the Pretoria High Court on Tuesday‚ SARS official Vlok Symington attached documents showing that Moyane opened a case at Brooklyn Police Station – CAS… September 14, 2017 Embattled South African Revenue Services commissioner Tom Moyane – humiliated by accounting and auditing firm KPMG's withdrawal of its report’s findings conclusions and recommendations on the controversial SARS “rogue unit” - has blamed the company for the PR disaster he faces. It’s now all out war for Moyane‚ who has… September 18, 2017