Phililline President Rodrigo Duterte yesterday sought to dispel concerns he will cling to power and become a dictator, saying he wants to achieve his goal of introducing federalism so that he can finish his term early. The former city mayor has long advocated federalism to tackle a yawning wealth gap, empower regional governments and recognise the country’s diverse makeup. A 19-member panel created by Duterte a month ago, composed of constitutional law experts and headed by a retired Supreme Court judge, has proposed a federal model similar to the US. Some critics believe the move to change the constitution to facilitate that would also provide means for Duterte to hold on to power beyond 2022, when his single, six-year term ends. But the 72-year-old said he no longer had the energy. “I will step down by 2020, I will not wait for 2022,” he said in a speech. “I am old. I have no more ambition. I would like to rest.” Duterte’s lower house allies last month voted to convene a constituent assembly to revise the charter, scrapping mid-term elections next year and extending the terms of all elected officials. The constitution was introduced in 1987 after the ousting of late dictator Ferdinand Marcos in a bloodless revolution. Previous moves to change it have failed, with civil groups thwarting perceived threats to a system designed to prevent strongmen emerging. Fiery Philippine leader lashes out at ICC probe into mass killings in his war on drugs Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte yesterday told the International Criminal Court (ICC) to go ahead and investigate him for crimes against humanity, and said he would prefer to face a firing squad rather than be… February 10, 2018 Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte announced Thursday the military would take a leading role in his deadly drug war, while vowing to kill more traffickers and addicts. "I'm taking in the AFP (Armed Forces of the Philippines) and raising the issue of drugs as a national security threat so that I… February 2, 2017 Tough-talking outsider seen as Donald Trump of Philippines presidential race THE crime-fighting Philippine mayor who has emerged as surprise front runner in presidential elections has said that he would kill his own children if he discovered they were taking illegal drugs. Even before the last presidential debate, there was little… April 26, 2016