Suspended SA Revenue Service commissioner Tom Moyane racked up a dubious list of “achievements” as head of the nation’s tax collection authority‚ says investigative journalist Jacques Pauw. At the top of that list were his efforts to halt an investigation into the tax affairs of former president Jacob Zuma. Moyane was suspended with immediate effect on Monday after refusing to step down when asked to by President Cyril Ramaphosa. Pauw‚ who revealed sensational allegations about Zuma’s tax affairs in his book, The President’s Keepers‚ compiled a list of Moyane’s “achievements” while in office. Moyane had‚ he alleged in a post on Facebook: Pauw alleged Moyane was corrupt‚ had no tax knowledge and was arguably Zuma’s worst appointment ever. The Presidency‚ in reaction to claims in the book about Zuma having failed to submit tax returns for his first four years in office‚ said he was tax compliant. “The tax matters of the president are in order‚” it said. Ramaphosa said in a sharply worded letter informing Moyane about his suspension on Monday: “You have failed in your role as an accounting officer for SARS. “As a result‚ SARS has been fundamentally jeopardised and has lost the confidence of taxpayers.” Moyane said in a letter to Ramaphosa he would challenge his removal in court, as “it was glaring that you have already made a decision to dismiss me”.  The South African Revenue Service has followed through on threats to take legal action against the author of The President’s Keepers‚ Jacques Pauw. Pauw’s bombshell book contained revelations over the tax affairs of President Jacob Zuma‚ including that he was paid a R1-million a month salary for at least four… December 20, 2017 The Democratic Alliance (DA) has accused the commissioner of the South African Revenue Service of engaging in intimidation tactics by launching legal action against the author of The President's Keepers. Commissioner Tom Moyane is seeking a declaratory order that author Jacques Pauw contravened the Tax Administration Act by publishing details… December 20, 2017 The SA Revenue Service declined to comment on a report on Monday (15/12/2014) about the resignation of another of its senior officials. Head of modernisation and strategy, Jerome Frey quit, Business Day reported. Responding to questions on the resignation, Sars spokeswoman Marika Muller said: "These are by their nature confidential… December 15, 2014