<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">&#65279;</span>  Shaun Abrahams announced on Friday that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) would be reinstating 16 charges, which include fraud and corruption, against former president Jacob Zuma. Abrahams said on Friday afternoon: “I am of the view that a trial court would be the most appropriate forum for these issues to be ventilated and to be decided upon. “After consideration of the matter‚ I am of the view that there are reasonable prospects of a successful prosecution of Mr Zuma on the charges listed in the indictment.” Zuma faces 18 charges‚ involving 783 incidents‚ of racketeering‚ corruption‚ money laundering and fraud. National Prosecuting Authority in The KwaZulu-Natal will facilitate the trial. The charges relate to a R30-billion government arms deal in the late 1990s. They were filed but then dropped by the NPA shortly before Zuma ran for president in 2009. Zuma — then deputy president — was linked to the deal through Schabir Shaik, his former financial adviser who was jailed for corruption. Shaik’s conviction almost torpedoed Zuma’s bid for president but the charges against him were dropped on a technicality in 2009. The High Court reinstated the charges in 2016 and the Supreme Court upheld that decision last year, rejecting an appeal by Zuma and describing the NPA’s initial decision to set aside the charges as “irrational“.  President Jacob Zuma and the National Prosecuting Authority will learn on Friday whether the Supreme Court of Appeal has granted them leave to appeal a ruling that Zuma may face 783 corruption charges. The SCA will deliver judgment on Friday after Zuma and the NPA asked the court to overturn… October 13, 2017 Barring a petition to the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA)‚ President Jacob Zuma must face charges of corruption that were dropped when the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) discontinued his prosecution in April 2009. This follows Friday’s decision by the full bench of the High Court in Pretoria‚ which refused Zuma… June 24, 2016 President Jacob Zuma has until the end of the day to submit fresh representations to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) on why he should not face corruption charges. The deadline comes at a time when the ANC is facing pressure to remove Zuma from office before his term ends in… January 31, 2018