Disgraced attorney and fraud accused Brenda Wardle was on a roll yesterday – actually, more than just one roll – when she spelt out exactly what she required when it came to toilet paper supplies. Being forced to stay in what she calls the centre of “1 000 devils”, the former legal commentator – who is in the North End Prison – made some quirky requests when she appeared briefly in the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court. Wardle, 58, asked magistrate Lionel Lindoor that she be supplied with four three-ply toilet rolls on a weekly basis, and if not that, then eight double-ply or 12 single-ply toilet rolls. “Correctional Services supplies only one roll once a month – render unto Wardle what Wardle deserves,” she said. Wardle became a household name for her legal commentary during the Oscar Pistorius murder trial and is now accused of fraud. She was charged after it was found that she was not a legal practising attorney as defined by the Attorneys Act when she told an Eastern Cape family she could get their relative, serving a 12-year sentence for murder, paroled early. Wardle allegedly swindled the family out of more than R500 000 between April 2009 and August 2013. She has been representing herself in the case against her since her arrest in East London in June. Earlier this month, she approached the Port Elizabeth High Court with an application to appeal after she was denied bail twice in the Commercial Crimes Court. Her appeal against the bail refusal was turned down after she failed to supply the court with all the necessary documents. Wardle has also instituted a high court application against Justice Minister  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Lack of documents sees fraud accused’s appeal struck off the roll For eight months, legal commentator Brenda Wardle has refused a lawyer – citing her superior knowledge – but yesterday she fell short when her application to appeal against her bail refusal was struck off the roll after she arrived… March 9, 2018 Legal expert Wardle adamant she will defend herself Dead set on conducting her own defence because she believes with her qualifications she can do a better job than most, legal commentator Brenda Wardle has asked a judge to order her immediate release so that she can prepare for trial. The… October 13, 2017 Pistorius commentator ‘pretended to be lawyer’ CONTROVERSIAL legal analyst Brenda Wardle has found herself on the wrong side of the law again, this time for allegedly pretending to be an attorney and offering to assist a convicted murderer to be released on parole. A warrant has been issued for her… July 22, 2015