Everything suggests there will be no shortage of drama when South Africa and Australia get to grips in the second cricket test starting in Port Elizabeth on Friday. South Africa may have lost the opening test in Durban, but they showed enough fight in the second innings to indicate it could be a closelyrun affair at St George’s Park. Fighting innings’ by Aiden Markram and Quinton de Kock took the game into a fifth day in Durban as the Proteas showed some grit after their first innings collapse. All eyes will also be on De Kock and Australian opener David Warner after their unseemly spat in a dressingroom stairwell at Kingsmead on Sunday. Aussie skipper Steve Smith said De Kock had got personal towards Warner out in the middle. Smith said the incident was unfortunate and that the rest of the series needed to be played in the spirit of the game. The pair were seen shaking hands at the end of the match, in an apparent move to draw a line under the ugly incident which was caught on CCTV. However, with the four-match series very much alive, it will not take much to bring tempers to the boil in Port Elizabeth. Poor crowds attended the opening test in Durban and officials will be hoping Bay fans come out in big numbers to support their heroes at South Africa’s most historic ground. This atmospheric stadium, famous for its brass band, staged the first test to be played outside of England and Australia in 1888-89. St George’s also staged South Africa’s first rugby international against England in 1891. The Proteas are hunting their first home series win over Australia since the 1969-70 match-up when Ali Bacher’s Springboks thumped the tourists 4-0. Bacher’s side included some of cricket’s all-time great players with Barry Richards, Graeme Pollock and Mike Procter ending their short-lived careers in style. If Faf du Plessis’s side want to emulate Bacher’s they will have to level the series with a win at St George’s and if the first test is anything to go by, Bay cricket fans are in for a five-day treat. Fast bowler plans to build on prolific Newlands record with return to action Quinton de Kock and Australia’s vice-captain David Warner have been charged in connection with the stairwell altercation that saw the first test in the series between South Africa and Australia end on a bad-tempered note. But it… March 7, 2018 Tourists triumph after rains bring early end to play WHEN AB de Villiers launched Moeen Ali towards the cheap seats beyond long-on in Bloemfontein last night, South Africa needed to score 19 more runs off the last four balls of that 20th over to nose ahead of England on the… February 4, 2016 South Africa took two more steps towards winning the first test against Sri Lanka at St George’s Park on Thursday. The visitors reached tea on the fourth day on 118/2 in search of a target of 488 — more than they have ever made in a fourth innings and more… December 29, 2016