There’s a line between policing and politics and the two should never cross‚ Police Minister Bheki Cele told cops on Friday. Speaking in Pretoria he told new members of Public Order Policing Reserve Unit to be deployed across the provinces that police should distance themselves from politics‚ especially when responding to protests. “Don’t ask for political affiliations when you are deployed to communities‚ just perform your duties to the best of your abilities. Leave politics to politicians‚” Cele said in a statement prepared for delivery at the event. He said that police have a duty to serve and protect and should do so without taking any lives‚ unless lives are threatened. “I am not calling for police to be trigger-happy‚” Cele said. “Public order policing is for the minimum force levels response and the force levels increases depending on the situation at hand.” Cele reminded officers to remain true to their oath of office and avoiding situations that tainted their reputation. “We will walk the streets of the so-called no-go areas. We will clean the streets and we will continue to do this until the people of South Africa say ‘we are safe’ and that they feel safe.” – TimesLIVE He's back and he wants the murder case of soccer star Senzo Meyiwa to be cracked immediately. Newly appointed police minister Bheki Cele‚ who was known for his controversial‚ proactive policing stance during his previous stint in the job‚ has hit the ground running with warnings to criminals and support… March 2, 2018 In his first public address as police minister, Bheki Cele told the families of five slain Ngcobo police officers and a soldier that members of the police force would be provided with “the tools of the trade” to take on violent criminals. He told an emotional funeral service, which bristled… February 28, 2018 Irate PE supporters told candidate blunder will be sorted if party wins The ANC is the oxygen of South African politics and if Nelson Mandela Bay residents do not vote for the ANC in the upcoming municipal elections, there will be chaos, according to high-ranking ANC member Bheki Cele. Speaking… July 6, 2016