 Internationally applauded German choir Junges Vokalensemble Hannover is set to share the stage with the Nelson Mandela University Choir on Monday, March 19 in a concert at the university’s South Campus auditorium. No strangers to the Port Elizabeth audience, the Vokalensemble performed San Gloria by acclaimed composer Peter-Louis van Dijk alongside the Nelson Mandela University Choir during their tour of South Africa in August 2015. However, this year the performance forms part of their wider tour of South Africa. Hannover’s performance will include loved South African folksongs such as Thula Sizwe, Al Lê die Berge Nog so Blou and Magaliesburgse Aandlied, while the Nelson Mandela University Choir will blend African and Western pieces such as Gjeillo’s Ubi Caritas and the Afro-American spiritual My Soul’s Been Anchored in the Lord in their performance . The concert will start at 7pm in the Nelson Mandela University’s South Campus Auditorium. Tickets cost R70 for adults and R50 for pensioners and will be available at the door. For more details on the concert contact Nicky Bosman at the Nelson Mandela University Music Department on (041) 504-4325. KOKOPELLI, one of Canada's most celebrated youth choirs, performs in Port Elizabeth tonight, as part of a four-week tour of South Africa and Swaziland. The choir is set to perform with the acclaimed Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University Choir at the NMMU South Campus Auditorium. Kokopelli artistic director, Scott Leithead said… August 5, 2013 The Nelson Mandela University is hosting an opera concert tomorrow night that will show off two magnificent opera voices. The concert, to be held at 7pm in the in the university’s South Campus Auditorium in Summerstrand, will consist of performances by Siphokazi Molteno and Noluvuyiso Mpofu. Both of these talented… March 9, 2018 MEMBERS of the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University's choir will soon be winging their way to Beijing, China to represent the African continent at the 12th China International Choral Festival and IFCM World Choral Summit. The choir, led by conductor Junita van Dijk, received an invitation to return to China in… July 20, 2014