The George municipality has confirmed that it will no longer be allowing Afrikaans musician Steve Hofmeyr to use the town hall to host his concert. “George municipality reserves the right to cancel the leasing of any municipal facility as per our policy‚ with 48 hours’ written notice‚” municipal communications manager Chantel Edwards-Klose said. “In this instance‚ the George municipality has exercised this right‚” she said in a text message. The decision to cancel the concert came after the ANC condemned the municipality’s move to allow Hofmeyr to perform at the venue‚ saying it would be insensitive to open the doors of an iconic place like the town hall to Hofmeyr. A statement circulating on social media‚ believed to be from Western Cape ANC spokesman Faiez Jacobs‚ said the ANC rejected and condemned the “promotion of the racist and white supremacist Afrikaner performer Steve Hofmeyr through a concert to be held on March 22 at the George town hall”. “We call on the municipality to immediately cancel this concert‚ disassociate themselves from Hofmeyr in the way that other sponsors like Pick n Pay‚ Land Rover and Absa have done in the past‚” it read. Jacobs said allowing Hofmeyr to use the hall would be seen as the municipality’s endorsement of Hofmeyr’s controversial views about black and coloured people. Besides his music‚ Hofmeyr has become known for his controversial comments and position on political issues. Hofmeyr, in a Facebook post, said the cancellation was unconstitutional and a breach of contract. He thanked his supporters for standing behind him, insisted he would not be deterred and said the show would take place. – TimesLIVE Andile Ndlovu   STORMY Afrikaans singer Steve Hofmeyr has stirred more trouble, rewriting Irish band U2's lyrics to their song Sunday Bloody Sunday, with its own parental-guidance warning, on his website. Hofmeyr boycotted the band's concert at the FNB stadium on Sunday, and claimed he threw his two tickets, worth a… February 15, 2011 THE Obama of Soweto, Mmusi Maimane, has set the social media standard so high that even Steve Hofmeyr has taken notes. The mid-morning “Twitter Takeover” where Hofmeyr launched a bilingual #AskSteve campaign, was a carbon copy of Maimane’s #AskMmusi initiative last month. Yesterday, the controversial Afrikaans singer and self-appointed activist… June 2, 2015 Pick n Pay and Jaguar Land Rover South Africa have decided not to renew their sponsorship of the Afrikaans is Groot (Afrikaans is big) concerts, according to a report. Beeld newspaper reported on Tuesday that last year, both companies said they would review their sponsorship of the festival following comments… March 17, 2015