Benetton will attack with their powerful forwards and strong ball carriers when they hunt for their ninth PRO14 win, Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids has warned. If Davids’s analysis is correct, a fierce contest is on the cards when the Italian side take on a rejuvenated Kings outfit at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth tomorrow. After their impressive maiden 45-13 win over the Dragons, the Kings will be hunting for backto-back wins as they attempt to climb up the log. “Benetton have a very strong pack of forwards, with good ball carriers and they are a physical side,” Davids said. “Getting their test players back will be a boost for them and they will be a big challenge for us. “After our win over the Dragons, the guys are energised and ready to go. “There is a lot of confidence and the guys have a spring in their step. “It is important for us that we do not go into dreamland after our last win and think it is going to come easy. “We will be facing quality sides in our last games against Benetton, Munster, Cardiff Blues and the Cheetahs. Benetton are very well organised in defence.” Powerful tight head prop Pieter Scholtz said the Kings were fired up for the clash. “The win over the Dragons meant a lot to us and we have a much better vibe in the side,” he said. “Though we have only won one game even the training is going better. We have a winning culture now. “I like to shout to my teammates to get stuck in and tackle during games. Now everyone is doing it, so I have fired them all up.” While the Kings are stranded at the bottom of the log with nine points from 17 games. Benetton are fifth in Conference B with 39 points. It is expected that former Kings lock Irne Herbst will be named in the Benetton lineup for tomorrow’s clash and he can expect a warm reception. When the teams met in the first round last year in Italy, Benetton ran out easy 31-3 winners at the Stadio Comunale di Monigo in Treviso. The Kings have made several changes for the game, and will field a new halfback combination. In-form flyhalf Kurt Coleman takes the place of Martin du Toit, who moves to the bench for the round 18 clash. In another switch, scrumhalf Rowan Gouws has been named among the replacements to make way for Godlen Masimla. With skipper Michael Willemse unavailable because of a knee injury, experienced prop Schalk Ferreira will lead the Kings into battle. The match kicks off at 3pm and gates open at 1pm. Tickets are available at all TicketPro outlets and online at www.ticketpros.co.za Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids has paid tribute to his “fearsome threesome”, who he says, are doing the dirty work for his team in the PRO14. Davids singled out loose forwards Andisa Ntsila, Tienie Burger and Ruaan Lerm for special praise ahead of his side’s clash against Benetton at… March 20, 2018 The Southern Kings have put their faith in flyhalf Kurt Coleman to mastermind a second PRO14 win when they face Benetton at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. Coleman made a big impression when he played off the bench when the Kings beat the Dragons, and… March 22, 2018 With tries racking up against his team at an alarming rate, Southern Kings coach Deon Davids knows his team must slam the back door shut against Italian rugby club Benetton Treviso on Saturday. Winless and pointless after five outings in the PRO14 tournament, the Southern Kings have leaked 27 tries… October 3, 2017