Port Elizabeth contestants of Come Dine with Me SA, from left, Cardel Lippstreu, Lee Hensberg, Gwendoline Zwiegelaar and Garneth Jaggers In Episode 6 of South Africa’s television show Come Dine With Me we’re dining in the windy city of Port Elizabeth for the first time in the series on BBC Brit on Thursday March 22 at 8pm. Guests include a former Mr Port Elizabeth, a young, bubbly party girl, a no-nonsense dog trainer and lastly, a ceramicist with a mischievous streak. Watch the sparks fly! All is set for an intriguing first night hosted by Gwendoline Zwiegelaar. Guests Lee Hensberg, the ceramicist 46 going on 25, and Cardel Lippstreu, PE’s premiere dog lady, both confess to being picky eaters – meaning Zwiegelaar has her work cut out for her if she wants to win that cash prize. Pity that former Mr PE, aka Garneth Jaggers, decides to kick the evening off with a rather inappropriate comment that could throw the whole evening into chaos . . . Night two falls to tell-it-how-it-is-lady Lippstreu. Her main course of ostrich ruffles some feathers, especially from bubbly but opinionated guest Zwiegelaar. The night takes an interesting turn when our diners reveal surprising fantasies about what their alter-ego drag names might be. Can you guess who “Dirty Diana” may be? Night three sees Jaggers take to the floor and attempt to dazzle the ladies. He calls himself the “Steak King” of PE, and with steak as mains, what could go wrong? The final dinner party sees ceramicist Hensberg play host, and what better way to welcome your guests than by serving something many might not like – periwinkles on the patio! The foursome are treated to rosemary-roasted marrowbones for starters, chicken in a clay pot with forty cloves of garlic for mains, and home-made ice cream with cinnamon banana for dessert. Will age trump enthusiasm? Will it be a battle of sexes? Will the weird triumph over the ordinary? Who will be the host with the most? ONE of the “breakout stars” from the hit BBC reality series Come Dine With Me South Africa graced this week’s launch event in Johannesburg – and the show’s local production company believes the next star from the soon-to-be-screened third series may well come from Port Elizabeth. January 25, 2014 Cindy Preller ONCE she started marketing herself, there was no looking back for Nelson Mandela Bay ceramic artist Lee Hensberg. "I have 10 years of marketing experience but never thought of applying my skills to my art. Once I started doing that, business has been booming for me and I… August 5, 2013 After three years since it was canned locally‚ Come Dine With Me SA is set to return to SABC3 this July. The SABC revealed on Monday that the popular competition to find SA's ultimate dinner party host will be relaunched in the country. The popular reality show was previously broadcast… February 6, 2017