US President Donald Trump has predicted tremendous success in upcoming groundbreaking talks with North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, and suggested the reclusive state wants to make peace despite a years-long nuclear standoff. The comments came after the American leader said he had received encouragement from the leaders of China and Japan, and assurance that North Korea had promised not to shoot missiles in the interim, as he moves towards the high-stakes summit, announced suddenly this week. “I think North Korea is going to go very well, I think we will have tremendous success . . . We have a lot of support,” Trump said before boarding his Marine One helicopter to travel to a rally in Pennsylvania. “The promise is they wouldn’t be shooting off missiles in the meantime, and they’re looking to de-nuke. So that’d be great.” At the rally, he told supporters that the US had shown great strength when tensions were high with Pyongyang, but said the reclusive regime’s leaders “want to make peace”. “I think it’s time,” Trump said. US President Donald Trump dialled up the rhetoric against North Korea again at the weekend, warning the country’s foreign minister that he and leader Kim Jong-un “won’t be around much longer”, as Pyongyang staged a major anti-US rally. North Korea’s foreign minister Ri Yong-ho told the UN General Assembly on… September 25, 2017 North Korea said it would reopen a long-closed border hotline with South Korea on Wednesday, hours after U.S. President Donald Trump appeared to mock the North's leader by saying he has a "bigger and more powerful" nuclear button than Kim Jong Un. The North's unscheduled statement, read out on state… January 3, 2018 North Korea must stop conducting nuclear tests before the United States would enter into any talks with the isolated Pyongyang regime, US ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said Sunday. "They have to stop testing. They have to be willing to talk about banning their nuclear weapons. Those things… January 8, 2018