The Nelson Mandela Bay council meeting descended into chaos on Thursday and speaker Jonathan Lawack indefinitely adjourned the special council meeting. A motion of no confidence against Mayor Athol Trollip‚ to be tabled by the EFF‚ was set to be discussed. A scuffle broke out when DA councillor Rano Kayser allegedly touched EFF councillor Zilindile Vena. This led to DA leader Mmusi Maimane intervening before city manager Johann Mettler also attempted to calm the councillors down. Other councillors such as Lukhanyo Mrara also got involved in an attempt to defend their leaders. TimesLIVE put together five moments that defined the chaotic council meeting on Thursday morning. Here are some of the interesting moments from inside and outside chambers: 1. Chaotic scenes outside council chambers.  2. Scuffle between councillors inside chambers.  3. The meeting collapses. Athol Trollip refuses to shake Mongameli Bobani’s hand.  4. The crowd marching outside chambers.  5. Councillors shouting at each other in chambers.  6. Marlon Daniels and Rano Kayser the former MMC for Roads and Transport say there is no bad blood between them.  Chaotic scenes were playing out in the Port Elizabeth city centre on Thursday morning as supporters of opposition parties clashed with police, who’ve formed a human chain to prevent them from accessing the council chambers in Military Road. Meanwhile, inside the chamber, the special council meeting – scheduled for… March 29, 2018 A Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality council meeting adjourned abruptly on Tuesday morning when opposition parties butted heads over several items - including speaker Jonathan Lawack’s request for deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani to leave the meeting. Councillors accused Lawack of bending rules and reminded him of a meeting in October last… May 23, 2017 Jugs and glasses fly, shots fired as meeting descends into chaos Terrified councillors dived for cover as all hell broke loose in a highly contentious Nelson Mandela Bay council meeting yesterday. Two councillors – DA mayoral committee member Rano Kayser and the ANC’s Rosie Daaminds – were injured in a… October 28, 2016