A brave Port Elizabeth police officer did not let the fact that he was hit by a taxi while chasing after a suspect stop him from apprehending the suspect in Gelvandale today (31/03/18). Police members were engaged in stop and search operations in Louw Street when they noticed a suspect running with a firearm in his hand. Police chased after the suspect on foot and in a vehicle when the member on foot was run over by a taxi. However, he got up and continued pursuing the suspect, who had allegedly tossed the firearm over a fence. The suspect then turned around and fired at police with a second firearm before handing over the firearm to two other males who joined him while running. The 18-year-old suspect was arrested while back-up vehicles continued chasing the other two other suspects. The injured Warrant Officer sustained injuries to his face, fingers and foot. After effecting the arrest, he was taken to hospital for treatment. The driver of the taxi was also apprehended and taken to the police station. A case of reckless and/or negligent driving was opened. The 18-year-old suspect will be detained on charges of illegal possession of a firearm and attempted murder. Bullets fail to stop heroic policeman shot in clash with robbery suspects A BRAVE police detective showed his mettle when he continued to pursue a gang of suspected robbers – despite being shot twice in the leg. His valiant efforts contributed to the arrest of two suspects, one of whom… February 18, 2016 Swift action by police resulted in the arrest of an alleged gang member following a shooting in Schauderville yesterday. It is alleged that a 19-year-old victim and friends were drinking in Ferreira Street on Saturday (03/02/18) when a Nissan bakkie stopped near them. One person got out of the vehicle and walked… February 4, 2018 A wounded suspect was arrested following a dramatic shootout with police after a business robbery in Port Elizabeth on Friday night and is under heavy police guard in hospital. In an incredible twist, the suspects were driving a taxi that they had hijacked in Motherwell earlier that day – with… July 25, 2016