Jobs at risk after CemAir issued notice to cease operations Plett Tourism has been dealt a blow after the Bitou Municipality issued privately owned airline CemAir a termination notice to cease operations at the Plettenberg Bay Airport. Plett Tourism chairman Peter Wallington said while they were not privy to the details between the municipality and CemAir, the consequences could be dire for the community at large. CemAir claims it was not furnished with reasons for the termination and has accused the municipality of not honouring undertakings to continue with negotiations to reach an amicable agreement. The airline – which services tourist and business destinations – has conducted more than 3 500 flights and carried more than 65 000 passengers to and from Plettenberg Bay in the last four years. Wallington said the local economy could be negatively impacted by the municipality’s decision. “There is no doubt that CemAir has made a difference to Plett in many ways – obviously for tourism, it broadens our appeal if visitors can fly in and out of town,” he said. “It also makes Plett more attractive to commuters, who might choose to live in Plett while their work is elsewhere [and] it is good for [residents] to have access to direct links to other towns.” Wallington said the town’s marketability was going to suffer. “It is not just those who have used the air service, but those who we, and others, market the service to as part of the Plett package,” he said. “Ultimately, the less appealing Plett is or becomes, there is the possibility of less revenue coming into the town – and that has consequences for employment, among other issues.” Wallington said Plett Tourism had not been consulted on the matter “although it is something which impacts on Plett and the brand and marketing, and on a key part of the town’s economic lifeblood”. CemAir said in a statement that the municipality claimed that the airline had failed to honour an agreement. “Although several requests have been made [to the municipality] to provide a copy of such agreement, nothing has been produced,” CemAir said. Bitou municipality spokesman Manfred van Rooyen said the municipality would comment today. The South African Civil Aviation Authority (SACAA) has temporarily halted passenger flights undertaken by 12 aircraft operated by CemAir. The airline‚ based at OR Tambo International Airport‚ flies to Bloemfontein‚ George‚ Cape Town‚ Hoedspruit‚ Margate‚ Plettenberg Bay and Port Elizabeth. “This withdrawal of the Certificate of Airworthiness privileges is precautionary… February 2, 2018 MATRICS may be in the dark as to what they want to do next, but when it comes to the Plett Rage, the future is always bright. And thanks to assurances from party organisers, not even Eskom's load-shedding will dim their party plans, as back-up generators have been put in… November 28, 2014 Deals worth millions could be at stake as police track Havemann The man who allegedly ran an accommodation scam that left about 100 pupils stranded in Plettenberg Bay may have pocketed more than R1-million through dubious deals. Plett Tourism spokeswoman Patty Butterworth said that Rick Havemann‚ in his early 50s,… December 8, 2016