Chippa United’s 1-0 win over Free State Stars could have gone either way but coach Vladislav Heric was relieved his team came out tops. The Chilli Boys exacted sweet revenge over the Bethlehem-based outfit in their Absa Premiership encounter at the Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane on Saturday after they narrowly lost 2-1 to the same opposition in the Nedbank Cup recently. Heric said they changed their tactical approach in the second half and played long balls as they were trying to squeeze their opponents in their half. “It worked alright for a couple of times but there was stress also for us to be beaten by long balls from those sides. So I had to put in extra defence for those long balls. But I’m very pleased with the fighting spirit the boys had today,” he said. He said collecting maximum points at a time when the Chilli Boys were struggling in the league gave him hope to turn things around at the Port Elizabeth-based outfit. Heric also said his team deserved the points that have put now put the Chilli Boys into ninth position on the log standings with 30 points. “We did all we could to win this game and the confidence my players have in me gives me satisfaction as their leader. And I guess there are things that we need to improve on but we are going to work on those. Now we have 2½ weeks to prepare ourselves for Mamelodi Sundowns. “They are giants but they have to prove that in the field of play. I believe that my players will be ready for that game and we are going to spend more time together. “Because I’ve only been here for two weeks now and in that time you can only do so much. But I’m very happy with the tactical understanding of my players. “And that actually gives me the courage to work and it’s my hope that we are going to fight for the top eight,” Heric said. Only hours after Chippa United parted ways with their head coach Teboho Moloi, club boss Siviwe Mpengesi announced the appointment of Vladislav Herić as his replacement with immediate effect. Herić returns to Chippa after a brief five-month stay with the Chilli Boys during the 2013-2014 Premier Soccer League season. "We… March 3, 2018 Chippa United boss Siviwe Mpengesi has already laid out the ground rules for newly appointed coach Vladislav Heric. Heric took over the reins from Teboho Moloi, who was shown the door on Saturday for failing to register a win in his last seven league games. Mpengesi, who was initially eyeing… March 7, 2018 Chippa United striker Linda Mntambo believes there is pressure on the team to get a positive result ahead of their Premier Soccer League fixture against Free State Stars at East London’s Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane on Saturday. The former Jomo Cosmos front man said winning their return game against… March 15, 2018