A Nelson Mandela Bay councillor who allegedly swindled the municipality out of R20 000 is expected to learn his fate next week when the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court hands down judgment. In stark contrast to previous appearances, ANC Ward 20 councillor Bongo Nombiba had no supporters during closing arguments yesterday. Previously, the court was filled with residents from his ward, which includes Kwazakhele. Nombiba was arrested by the Hawks in 2016 and charged with fraud, corruption and contravening the Prevention of Organised Crime Act. It is alleged that Nombiba facilitated a donation from the Ward 20 municipal discretionary fund for the Thulamangwane Community Project, a non-government organisation (NGO) which cares for the elderly. Nombiba allegedly duped some of the members into handing over two-thirds of the amount and pocketed it himself. Thulamangwane deputy chairman Mandisa Monco and secretary Zukiswa Mbhem approached Nombiba requesting a R10 000 donation from the municipality, according to the charge sheet. During closing arguments, prosecutor Wilhelm de Villiers said Nombiba instructed Monco and Mbhem to put the request in writing, but leave out the monetary amount. The completed and signed request by Mbhem and Monco, dated September 15 2014, was directed to Nombiba and then redirected to the former council chief whip, Joy Seale. Nombiba motivated the request for a donation of R30 000 and, on November 4, the funds were paid by the municipality to the NGO’s Standard Bank account. De Villiers told the court that it was then that Nombiba allegedly told Monco and Damba that R30 000 had been paid into the account but that R20 000 was his. Nombiba’s defence attorney Andile Ngqakayi told the court yesterday there was no direct evidence linking Nombiba to the fraud and that the state was relying on circumstantial evidence. Ngqakai further claimed that the evidence, in the form of witness testimony by two state witnesses, was not reliable. But De Villiers said the evidence against Nombiba was overwhelming. “All witness evidence is corroborated by documents submitted to court,” he said. Judgment will be handed down on Friday next week. A Port Elizabeth court was not big enough to accommodate the busload of ANC supporters dropped off yesterday to support Ward 20 councillor Bongo Nombiba when he appeared on a charge of fraud. Nombiba is accused of pocketing the bulk of the money meant for the Thulamangwane Community Project, a… January 27, 2017 ANC man accused of pocketing R20 000 from special metro fund A Nelson Mandela Bay ward councillor allegedly swindled the municipality out of R20 000, which was part of a donation to an organisation caring for the elderly. Ward 20 (Kwazakhele) ANC councillor Bongo Nombiba was arrested by the Hawks… December 13, 2016 DA member linked to life policy scam, ANC’s Nombiba in pocketing cash claim Two Nelson Mandela Bay councillors – one from the DA and another from the ANC – appeared on separate fraud charges in the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court yesterday. DA councillor Mbulelo Victor Manyati is accused of… October 28, 2017