The state has until next month to complete its investigations into a fatal shooting outside a popular eatery on the Port Elizabeth beachfront or risk having the case struck off the roll, the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court heard yesterday. Jeremy Stokes, 30, and Cheslyn Jordaan, 23, both of Bethelsdorp, are charged with the murder of Marvin Draghoender, 27, and the attempted murder of a 16-year-old girl who was shot in the head when caught in the crossfire. The shooting took place in the early hours of October 15 in front of McDonald’s after an alleged altercation between two groups of people. Stokes, an alleged member of the Kakmaakers gang, abandoned his bail application in November. Jordaan was denied bail. Last month, Jordaan approached the Port Elizabeth High Court to appeal against his bail dismissal, but acting judge Sarah Sephton said she was unable to find exceptional circumstances to justify releasing him on bail. Attorney Malan de Beer, representing Stokes, asked the court to rule for a final remand after the state asked for the matter to be postponed again, pending the availability of video footage and a photo album. Magistrate Patrick Ntoyi, confirmed that the remand would be final and told the state to get its affairs in order or the court would consider striking the matter off the roll. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the investigation was still under way, with video footage being analysed at the SAPS forensics laboratory in Cape Town. “It is quite complicated and not a simple process involved. We hope to get the analysis before the next court date,” she said. Naidu confirmed a photo album still needed to be compiled regarding the injured 16-year-old, which had been delayed due to the lengthy recovery period of the victim. The case has been put down for April 20.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  A police constable and two others implicated in the murder of a state witness appeared briefly in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court yesterday. Walter Francis, 31, of Bloemendal, who was stationed at the Humewood Police Station at the time of his arrest, told the court he intended to apply for… December 6, 2017 Bail was denied to a police constable charged with the murder of a state witness, when the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court found yesterday he did not prove exceptional circumstances for his release. Walter Francis, 31, of Chatty, did not prove to the court that it would be in the interests… December 20, 2017 Prosecutor cites shooting death of witness A police officer implicated in the murder of a state witness should be denied bail as the last time he was granted bail the man who could have testified against him ended up dead, prosecutors opposing the bail application of Constable Walter Francis said.… December 15, 2017