The mother of slain Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius drowned on Sunday – less than a year after Hannah was raped and murdered. Someone close to the family‚ who wished to remain anonymous‚ confirmed that Anna Cornelius‚ 56‚ died on Sunday morning. She leaves behind her husband Willem and son Andries. Anna’s body was found floating offshore of Scarborough on the Cape Peninsula. Ian Klopper‚ National Sea Rescue Institute station commander at Kommetjie‚ said it was suspected that Anna had drowned. “At 9am on Sunday‚ NSRI Kommetjie duty crew launched the sea rescue craft Spirit of the Vines following eyewitness reports of a body floating offshore of Scarborough‚” Klopper said. “On arrival on the scene the body of an adult female was recovered onto our sea rescue craft from the water 150 metres offshore of Scarborough and NSRI paramedics confirmed the female to be deceased from a suspected fatal drowning accident.” NSRI took the body to their Kommetjie sea rescue station before it was taken into the care of the Forensic Pathology Services. The police opened an inquest docket. This comes less than a year after Hannah‚ 21‚ was raped and killed on May 27 last year. The four men accused of raping and killing Hannah appeared in the High Court in Cape Town on Friday for a pre-trial hearing. Vernon Witbooi‚ Eben van Niekerk‚ Geraldo Parsons and Nashville Julius will spend another month in jail until their trial gets under way. The case was postponed to April 20‚ because the defence said it had not yet received all the state’s evidence against the men. Hannah and her friend‚ Cheslin Marsh‚ were hijacked and kidnapped in the early hours of May 27. Marsh was stabbed and hit with a brick but managed to find help after he was left for dead in Kraaifontein‚ 15km west of Stellenbosch. Cornelius’s head was crushed by a rock after she was stabbed several times. The accused are thought to have played different roles in the crimes. They are also accused of attacking two other women later that morning using Cornelius’ blue Citi Golf. Their trial is expected to take between three and six weeks. The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) came to the rescue of five Scouts whose dinghy had capsized during regatta in Simonstown on Sunday. According to a statement‚ the race “commenced during favourable winds (but) had been called off when wind speeds increased in a short space of time to a… September 7, 2015 Following at least 13 rescues and one death at sea‚ the NSRI has urged the public to be cautious around all water‚ coastal and inland‚ as well as at swimming pools over this festive season. The following is a round-up of rescues the non-profit organisation‚ which has more than 1000… December 26, 2017 A 19-year-old American student is presumed to have drowned in the Transkei, south west of Coffee Bay. Various rescue teams have been searching for the student who went missing in the surf at a holiday lodge on Sunday (30/08/15). According to the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI), six University of Cape Town students went to… August 31, 2015