A 32-year-old suspect is expected to appear in the Hankey Magistrate’s Court tomorrow following an attack on a farm outside the town last week. The suspect was arrested a few kilometres from the Lesotho border on Wednesday (28/03/18) and some of the property taken from the scene was also recovered.  He will appear on four charges of attempted murder, rape ,illegal possession of a firearm, robbery with aggravated circumstances, theft and indecent assault. A Port Elizabeth businesswoman and her three children were attacked inside their Hankey farm house on Friday 23 March. It is alleged that the suspect gained entry into the house after firing several shots through a glass door wounding the 44-year-old female in the process. The suspect took her in her vehicle to an ATM in town (Hankey) to withdraw cash. Whilst the suspect was busy withdrawing cash, the victim managed to drive off with her car to another farm in the area and police were alerted. Last week a 30-year-old suspect was arrested in connection with the attacked but later released due to insufficient evidence. The man who allegedly attacked a Port Elizabeth businesswoman and her three children inside their Hankey farm house over the weekend has been released. The 30-year-old suspect had been arrested at 10:30pm on Sunday night – less than 48 hours after the attack – but was released on Tuesday. The… March 27, 2018 A 30-year-old suspect has been arrested in connection with an attack on a woman at a farm outside Hankey. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the suspect was arrested on charges of house robbery, attempted murder, rape, pointing of firearm, assault with the intent to do grievous bodily harm, theft and abduction… March 26, 2018 THE Rosedale community in Hankey near Jeffreys Bay was still reeling in shock yesterday after a young  girl and a  woman who was looking after her were brutally murdered in an alleged tik-fuelled attack in their home during the early hours of Sunday morning. The naked bodies of Lukishia Plaatjies,… August 5, 2014