Randfontein police are investigating a case of attempted murder after an eight-year-old girl “accidentally” shot her grandfather in the head in the Helikon Park suburb‚ west of Johannesburg. While exact details of how the shooting occurred are unclear‚ it is believed that the 46-year-old man was found by paramedics still in bed with a single gunshot wound to the head shortly after 7am on Tuesday. He was airlifted to Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto‚ according to ER24’s Russel Meiring. The Randfontein Herald newspaper reported on Wednesday that the man was in a stable condition. Randfontein SAPS station commander Brigadier Jacob Manamela said the man was allegedly sleeping with the firearm under his pillow before the incident. He did not name the injured man. A source close to the matter‚ who did not want to be named‚ said the firearm had fallen from the bed and that someone close to the family – understood to be the child – had mistaken it for a toy. “A case of attempted murder has been opened for further investigation‚” Manamela said. He pleaded with firearm owners to be responsible when handling their weapons indoors. – TimesLIVE An elderly Summerstrand man and his son wrestled with three suspects they disturbed after the armed men allegedly entered a Rubin Crescent house yesterday. Police said the 70-year old man and his 68-year old wife – who they are not identifying – had just returned to the house where their… January 15, 2015 THE state refused to accept the version of a man who pleaded guilty to raping his 11-year-old niece after his plea explanation was read in court and detailed how the girl had initiated the sexual intercourse. The 41-year-old man from Arcadia, Port Elizabeth, cannot be named to protect the identity… August 12, 2014 The case involving an 83-year-old man accused of raping a nine-year-old girl in Plettenberg Bay last year was postponed for a final time yesterday following several hold ups with the handing in of evidence. The man, who cannot be named until he has pleaded, briefly appeared in the Plettenberg Bay Magistrate’s Court yesterday.… May 11, 2016