On one of the busiest days travel days of the year‚ an angry mob forced the closure of the N3 at Mooi River Toll Plaza on Monday. Several trucks were burnt as part of the protest. It is understood that a group from Bruntville‚ which lies adjacent to the freeway near Mooi River in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands‚ had first put the torch to a truck which had stopped at the toll in the early hours of the morning. A source who spoke on condition of anonymity said that a truck carrying liquor had broken down and that at some point a gang had started to loot it. “They were stealing liquor and then other truck drivers came to help and then they just started burning the trucks‚” he said. “There is nothing political about this. It’s just criminal‚” he added. Since then the N3 and parts of the R103 were closed. The N3 Toll Concession and SAPS confirmed the protest action and road closures. “Please be warned that roads around Mooi River is closed and completely inaccessible. Protesters at Mooi River toll gate. The R62‚ R103 and the N3 north and south bound is closed‚” police said on their official Twitter account. The official @N3Route account also posted: “Protest action taking place in the vicinity of #MooiPlaza. Total road closure. Please delay your trips. We urge all drivers to be extremely cautious.” At least 27 people were injured in a multiple vehicle collision on the N3 Durban-bound Highway near the Mooi River turn-off near Nottingham Road in KwaZulu-Natal on Saturday morning‚ ER24 said. ER24 paramedics‚ along with various other services‚ arrived on the scene to find numerous vehicles lying in the right-hand… March 25, 2017 People are streaming through the country’s border posts and making a beeline for coastal towns as festive season travel gets under way in earnest. Department of Home Affairs spokesman Thabo Mokgola‚ speaking from the border post at Ficksburg in the Free State‚ said yesterday: “Naturally you will see more traffic… December 16, 2016 Medics and police officers haul the injured man to safety. He had spent the night in the bush after being hurled off the bridge. @TimesLIVE pic.twitter.com/C07WkYvfsi — Jeff Wicks (@wicks_jeff) April 13, 2017 Relatives of Lindelani Ntinga spent nearly 12 hours desperately searching for him – all the while he… April 13, 2017