The passion to develop talent in his hometown has prompted Bay gospel singer Andile B to hold choir auditions for unemployed youth for his upcoming live DVD recording. The auditions, for talented singers under the age of 40, will be held at the Motherwell Sports Centre on April 25 and 26. “We’re specifically looking for talented people who are sitting at home with nothing do and whose lives will not be distracted by the choir, so if you are employed or are a scholar, we won’t take you because we don’t want our rehearsal schedule to distract your commitments,” he said. Andile is looking to give an opportunity to 15 singers who will form a choir with whom he will record an album at the sports centre in September and thereafter tour the country with him. “After the recording they will be working with me full-time. We will be touring the country and we already have an invitation [to perform] in England,” he said. The Alexandria-born singer, who grew up in various townships in the Bay from the age of two, will be recording a live album for the first time as a response to his fans’ requests. He will use the album – yet to be named – as an opportunity to give exposure to upcoming talent. “People have been asking who I am going to feature in the album and I keep saying that I will not feature any well-known singers because I want the unknown singers, composers, and songwriters to shine.” The auditions will be held from 7.30am until 3.30pm on both days. Interested candidates are asked to bring their ID cards. THREE Eastern Cape choirs have secured spots in the finals of the annual Old Mutual National Choir Festival. The festival's theme is to commemorate the legacy of the late Nelson Mandela, and is set to take place on December 6 and 7 at the Chief Albert Luthuli International Convention Centre… October 21, 2014 THE only junior regional choir in the country, the Eastern Cape junior Children’s Choir, under leadership of Hanlie Young, will be holding auditions next Friday at Charlo Primary School in Port Elizabeth. This is an opportunity for talented singers who will be in Grade 1, 2, 3 or 4 next… October 25, 2013 EASTERN Cape Audio Visual Centre (ECAVC) has launched its Provincial Music Talent Search, with those who enter in line to walk off with a lucrative recording deal worth more than R1-million and R20 000 in cash. Auditions for the long-awaited talent search started on Saturday at Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University.… March 3, 2015