This photo, above, was taken outside Leyshaw Court in Leylands Road, Sydenham. The residents of these flats, adjacent flats and immediate neighbours leave their rubbish outside every day, with the result that there are bag scratchers walking around every day scratching in the bags, then leaving the contents lying around. Even mattresses and furniture are left outside. The mess in the picture is after a long weekend. The owner of Leyshaw Court is apparently a lawyer in Korsten. People from elsewhere in the metro ride past and must wonder who lives here. It is not a good advertisement for the neighbourhood as there is rubbish dumped all over. Can anything be done about stopping this mess and getting the residents to put out their rubbish only on collection days? The former school grounds also need cleaning. There are people who clean up the mess here once or twice a week, that is then collected at a price, no doubt paid by the metro. I think cameras must be put up opposite these flats and at entrances to the former school grounds to see who the dumpers are. Trollip accused of breaking promise of regular refuse collections Nelson Mandela Bay townships are filthy, with some residents saying mayor Athol Trollip has broken his promise of weekly refuse collections in every community. Ripped refuse bags, takeaway containers and soiled nappies are just some of the rubbish lining the streets… December 23, 2016 The metro swooped on a huge illegal rubbish dump in the Fairview bush this week, highlighting their commitment to putting an end to one of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’s worst environmental and public health scourges. The shocking extent of the dumpsite emerged on Wednesday after the metro, guided by… February 24, 2018 RESIDENTS of Ward 59 Ext 6 Swartkops Valley, Motherwell, are fed up with an illegal dumping site in their area. This has been happening for the past five years. This has been reported to the relevant office of the ANC councillor by residents in the area. There has not been… January 6, 2016