Port Elizabeth police have opened an inquest and are investigating a case of murder after the bodies of an elderly couple were found on Monday morning. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse Van Rensburg said the bodies were discovered in a Sherwood townhouse at about 7am. “A neighbour was driving out of the Everwood complex in Worthing Road when he noticed a note on the window of the house. He stopped and the content of the note read that whoever reads the note must contact the SAPS,” she said. The neighbour alerted a member of the body corporate and police were contacted. “On entering the house, police found the body of a 64-year-old man hanging in the garage and his 67-year-old wife’s body lying in the back of his bakkie,” Janse Van Rensburg said. It is not clear when the couple died. The woman’s cause of death will only be determined once the postmortem is conducted. “Preliminary investigations suggest that the woman was murdered by her husband who committed suicide after the alleged murder,” Janse Van Rensburg said. “Police found several notes left by the husband.” The couple lived alone and their names are being withheld until their next of kin have been notified. A search is under way for three men involved in a shootout with police after a man was robbed in his Newton Park flat yesterday morning. The robbers struck at 4.30am, tying up the 60-year-old man and holding him at gunpoint in his 6th Avenue flat, before fleeing with stolen… July 20, 2016 The body of a Bethelsdorp man was found in his home neighbourhood on Friday night. Sebastian Solomon, of Lodewyk Avenue, was found stabbed to death in Kakora Street – less than a kilometre away from his house. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said the man was last seen fleeing… December 19, 2016 SMART thinking by police on the hunt for a hijacked car yesterday led to the discovery of the body of a man who had been strangled to death in a suspected Port Elizabeth house robbery. Bhaven Moodley, 37, whose birthday was yesterday, was found dead inside his house in Crammer… January 19, 2016