There are lessons to be learnt from the shockingly low turnout at a national music star’s concert at the Splash Festival. Visitors to the city have fond memories of a vibrant family festival, with Splash offering a buzzing market and plenty of activities for the children, punctuated with glorious fireworks on the Saturday night. Sports and music added to the atmosphere. What has changed? This year there again was beach volleyball, jet ski races, a surfing competition, deep sea angling and a children’s Easter egg hunt. Stallholders report moderately successful trading and, at least until yesterday’s final day of the festival, the weather was unexpectedly good. Overall, it was not a bad year for Splash. However, The Herald reports today that only a few hundred fans turned out for a concert headlined by Cassper Nyovest, perhaps the biggest hip-hop artist in the country. Just three years ago this rapper drew a record crowd of 20 000 to his Fill Up The Dome concert and in December – less than four months ago – he drew 68 000 people to the FNB Stadium in Johannesburg. Why could he not attract more than a paltry 100 or so to the Splash Festival concert at Wells Estate on Sunday afternoon? Although it is tempting to point a finger at the organisers or the municipality, this may not be justified. It seems that the authorities did budget carefully for the event. They certainly did advertise and promote the concert well, and there was no lack of awareness on social or traditional media. The ticket price of R180 was not out of order for a national performer. Who then should shoulder the blame for the flop? We are sorry to say, fellow citizens, but we point the finger squarely at you. One criticism of previous Splash festivals was that it always centred on the southern suburbs, with its main activities at Hobie Beach in Summerstrand. However, this year there was an effort to spread the programme around the city, including hosting this concert at Wells Estate, on the northern side of the city. We admit this city has had its fair share of concerts which have flopped, but several national artists do not visit this city simply because our residents do not support them. Tickets costing between R180 and R350 have been largely blamed for the dismal showing at a Wells Estate Splash Festival event which attracted only about 150 people, despite featuring top South African hip-hop artist Cassper Nyovest. Despite the rest of the festival hitting the mark in Summerstrand, organisers and municipal… April 3, 2018 ALMOST all of the 30000 tickets were snapped up for the weekend’s R8-million Lotto-funded International Music Festival in Nelson Mandela Bay, featuring the likes of US singer George Benson and South African jazz icon Hugh Masekela. In what turned out to be an electrifying event stretching into the early hours, … May 16, 2011 Annual Splash Festival tops list of options for weekend ANCHORED by the annual Splash Festival, there will be no shortage of fun and entertainment in Nelson Mandela Bay this Easter weekend, when malls, churches and the municipality will be going the “egg-stra” mile for revellers of all ages. And while… March 23, 2016