British model and TV star‚ Katie Price‚ was attacked and robbed‚ while en route to Swaziland from Johannesburg. Price was filming the second series of her TV show‚ My Crazy Life‚ when the incident occurred on Thursday night in Chrissiesmeer‚ Mpumalanga. She was travelling in a convoy and her children‚ Princess and Junior‚ were with her. Police confirmed the incident to TshisaLIVE and said several items were stolen. “A British tourist was with her two children when they had to stop so one of the children could relieve themselves by the road. They were attacked by three men and items including cash‚ laptops and jewellry were taken.” British tabloid The Sun has quoted Price as fearing for her life. “We are lucky to be alive. It could have been much worse.” It’s understood that one person was treated in hospital after he tried to intervene when the robbers attacked. It’s unclear whether the star will continue filming in South Africa‚ but TshisaLIVE understands she is still in the country at this stage. British TV personality Katie Price has given more details on the messages she claims to have received from Oscar Pistorius during his trial. Price‚ who has previously confirmed that they two were in communication‚ has explained the circumstances surrounding their conversation. The British TV star was on talk show‚ Loose… May 26, 2016 A visiting King William’s Town mother was robbed at gunpoint in front of her two young children when they went for a walk at the Port Elizabeth beachfront yesterday. Two gunmen attacked Maree Rushmere, 37, and her 66-year-old mother, Patricia Hayes, just metres from the Protea Hotel Marine. Police spokeswoman… December 12, 2017 UK TV personality Katie Hopkins – once known as “Britain’s most controversial columnist” – is heading to South Africa to report on farm murders‚ which she claims are a result of anti-white ethnic cleansing. https://twitter.com/KTHopkins/status/952966583433027584 In her career as a British journalist‚ Hopkins has attacked Muslims‚ called migrants “cockroaches” and… January 16, 2018