 Negotiations are underway to have Port Elizabeth’s Queen Victoria statue removed and relocated – to the UK. This follows a request from the royal family for the statue – many of which are found in Commonwealth countries around the world – to be returned after the municipality recently announced plans for it to be replaced with that of former president Nelson Mandela. The UK has offered an alternative, however, in the form of an oversize bust of its foreign secretary, Boris Johnson. Royal family spokesman George Winterbottom said the idea was first mooted after 2015’s #RhodesMustFall campaigns during which many statues around the country – including that of Queen Victoria in front of Port Elizabeth’s Main Library – came under attack. The municipality’s latest plan has reignited the royals’ wish to have the statue returned to the UK. “We have approached the Bay officials and started the process of ‘repatriating’ our beloved Queen Victoria. We think she needs a little pampering on home soil,” Winterbottom said. Heritage activist Rose Marble said she was taken aback and disappointed by the decision. “This statue is as much a part of Port Elizabeth as the newer Nelson Mandela cutout at the Donkin Reserve. I can’t believe they would just take it away without consulting the wider Port Elizabeth public,” she said. But #RhodesMustFall campaign supporter Stone Simahla welcomed the Queen’s removal. “They are welcome to take their Queen whoever and go,” he said. “But let them even try put that mug Johnson in front of city hall. He can’t even find his comb.” Bay officials were mum on the plans, although a secret document found on a table at Cubana restaurant confirms the approach by the UK. It also states that Johnson has been offered as a guest of honour to open the municipality’s proposed Baakens zipline facility, once it is established. Johnson once got stranded midair when a zipline malfunctioned in London. Queen Victoria has stood outside the Main Library since 1903 and is a popular staging point for the city’s pigeons.  QUEEN Victoria, now 112 years old, is in the midst of a long-overdue makeover. The imposing colonial-era statue of the British ruler, which has stood outside Port Elizabeth’s Main Library since 1903, is undergoing restoration and a general makeover after being daubed with green paint in April. It was among… October 2, 2015 Paint has stained marble of Queen Victoria sculpture THE Mandela Bay Development Agency ( MBDA) has begun restoring colonial-era monuments damaged and defaced in a string of attacks in Nelson Mandela Bay in April. A number of other monuments in the Eastern Cape, including in East London, Hankey and Uitenhage,… September 14, 2015 The statue of Queen Victoria, which stands in front of the public library in Port Elizabeth, has become the latest in a series of South African statues to be vandalised. The statue was seen covered in green paint on Friday morning (10/04/15). Several statues have been vandalised across the country this… April 10, 2015