Bay fight fans can look forward to another weekend of top-tier competition when the Chosen Fighting Championship returns for another round tonight. With a new venue and arena, Chosen 5 promises to be the biggest show the promoter has put on to date, and founder Ivan Strydom said spectators were in for a treat. “We are very excited about this one. The show is moving into the iconic Tramways building, and instead of the traditional boxing ring our fighters will now compete in an actual octagonal cage,” Strydom said. “In addition, we have brought a professional production team on board with big screens and an impressive lights display. This will give our fans a great show, and give our fighters a taste of what professional fighting is like.” Strydom conceded that he was amazed by how quickly the show had grown, not only in size but in popularity as well. “In December 2016 we started a tiny fight promotion in a primary school hall. Less than a year and a half later, we are using one of the city’s best venues and our crowds have tripled. “I am blown away by the support of the Port Elizabeth fans. Without them, none of this would be possible,” Strydom said. This weekend’s show will see the lightweight, welterweight and light-heavyweight champions defend their titles. Port Elizabeth fan favourite Shane Higgins, 32, will defend his lightweight belt against Jaco van Vuuren, but the champion believes he is up to the challenge. “I just came out of a fight camp for an event two weeks ago, so I’m feeling sharp. I am definitely looking forward to cementing my place as the best lightweight around.” His teammate at the PE Submission Fighting Academy, Cedric Mbala, 29, is looking to take the welterweight title from East London’s Juhan Botha. “I am ready. This is my fourth fight and I have improved a lot since my debut last year. This is my time, and I want that belt around my waist,” Mbala said. Brandon Wilson, 20, fighting out of Chosen Fighting Academy, will be making his MMA debut on the night and believes his boxing background will give him the edge. One of the most anticipated fights of the night will be the grudge match between Port Elizabeth’s Brandon Fox, 23, and the light-heavyweight champion Sipho Fodo, from Mthatha. They have fought twice before with each winning one bout, making this the decider. The event will kick off at the Tramways building at 6.30pm. Limited tickets will be available at the door at R100. The Chosen Fighting Championship is back, and promises a bigger crowd, bigger fights and a lot more exposure for Eastern Cape amateur mixed martial artists. Chosen 2 is set to take place on April 1 at the Pieter Rademeyer Hall in Algoa Park where it will showcase Port Elizabeth fighters… March 23, 2017 New promotion aims to turn mixed martial art spotlight on East Cape talent The Eastern Cape’s young fighting talent will be put on display when some of Port Elizabeth and East London’s top amateur mixed martial artists (MMA) square up in a new fighting promotion tonight. The Chosen Fighting Championship… December 21, 2016 City included in EFC fixtures for first time The wait is over for Nelson Mandela Bay fight fans as Africa’s biggest mixed martial arts promotion is set to make its way down to Port Elizabeth for the first time ever. The Extreme Fighting Championship (EFC) has released its list of… January 26, 2017