Captain James Okwuosa wants Chippa United to frustrate Mamelodi Sundowns in their Premier Soccer League fixture when the sides meet at the Loftus Versfeld Stadium in Pretoria tonight. The match will not be a walk in the park for the Chilli Boys as the Brazilians are chasing for league honours this season. Okwuosa returns from a one-match suspension after accumulating his fourth yellow card. He missed out on the team’s recent 1-0 win over Free State Stars. The Nigerian defender will be playing a vital role in making sure Chippa’s defence wall is solid against an attacking Sundowns. “Each and every player gets excited when they come back from suspension,” Okwuosa said. “It gives you some time to rest and also some time to reflect on the things you have been doing right and wrong. I am excited to be back in the team again. “For us, we are here to win, because we know we cannot give away points. In the PSL this season it is very difficult, so every game we just have to go for three points. “If the three points don’t come, we can then take a draw. We are not coming here for a loss – losing will not be any good to us. “We are determined to make sure we get maximum points, just like we did against Free State Stars in East London,” he said. “We don’t need any motivation, we have played them three times this season. “One we drew, in the Telkom knockout we beat them 1-0 and then in the league we played to a 0-0 draw. “We did our best in those games, but we just have to keep improving. That is what we have been doing since the arrival of the new coach. “With the compact game tonight we will try and frustrate them and take our chances and see if we come back with three points.” The defender said they had been working on keeping their shape during play and on catching teams on the counterattack. CAPTAIN James Okwuosa will play his last match for Chippa United when they face Kaizer Chiefs at the FNB Stadium tomorrow (kickoff 3pm). After weeks of speculation, Okwuosa confirmed yesterday he would not be with the team next season. He declined to reveal the name of the club he would… May 20, 2016 CHIPPA United captain James Okwuosa says his team need a fresh approach and they will not be banking on previous victories over Orlando Pirates when they play the Soweto giants at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tonight (kickoff 7.30pm). In the five league games that Chippa and Pirates have played since… May 11, 2016 A victory against Cape Town City is crucial for the team to win back the hearts of their supporters, says Chippa United captain James Okwuosa. The Port Elizabeth side play City in a Premier Soccer League fixture at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday (3.30pm). The Chilli Boys have not… November 17, 2016