Chinese President Xi Jinping greeted Zimbabwean counterpart Emmerson Mnangagwa as an “old friend” of China yesterday as he visited Beijing, which previously backed his ousted predecessor Robert Mugabe. Mnangagwa, who received military training in China when he was a young liberation fighter in the 1960s, was met with a military guard of honour at the Great Hall of the People on his first state visit outside Africa. The two leaders oversaw the signing of six documents, including a letter on economic and development cooperation and another on emergency food assistance, as Mnangagwa seeks help from a major ally with historic ties to Zimbabwe. “I heartily welcome President Mnangagwa on his visit to Beijing,” Xi said as the two sat down for talks. “You are an old friend of China and I appreciate your efforts to develop relations in all areas.” Mugabe sacked Mnangagwa from his job as vice-president in November over a succession tussle. Then-army chief General Constantino Chiwenga visited Beijing shortly before the military action which saw Mnangagwa take power, leading to questions on whether China had any role in the power transfer. Chiwenga was named vice-president in December. China denied it played any part in the transition. Beijing had long been one of Mugabe’s most powerful allies and a major trade partner, as the West shunned him over his government’s human rights violations, but it avoided publicly taking sides during the military action. Mnangagwa told Xi he appreciated China’s political support and goodwill. The visit comes as China takes a more proactive role in Africa, where it has long invested in infrastructure projects and sought resources. It has recently built its first overseas military base in Djibouti. Relations between China and Zimbabwe date back to the liberation struggle of the 1960s, when Beijing provided arms and trained some of the top guerrilla leaders, including Mnangagwa. Before his arrival on Monday, Mnangagwa told China’s official Xinhua news agency that his trip was aimed at thanking Xi and the Chinese people for supporting his country “during the hard times when the West imposed sanctions on us”. Mnangagwa also approved of his host’s political philosophy: “Xi Jinping thought on socialism with Chinese characteristics for a new era. “I will take this mantra to Zimbabwe and hope to develop some socialism with Zimbabwean characteristics,” he said. Emmerson Mnangagwa vowed sweeping change as he was sworn in as Zimbabwe's president yesterday, seeking to reassure foreign investors and pledging to fight poverty and corruption after Robert Mugabe's shock resignation. In his inaugural address, the new president set out a programme of dramatic change that promised a stark reversal… November 25, 2017 Zimbabwe's former vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa flew home yesterday to take power after the resignation of Robert Mugabe ended 37 years of authoritarian rule. Mnangagwa flew into Harare’s Manyame airbase from South Africa and met key members of the ruling Zanu-PF before heading to State House for a briefing, his aide… November 23, 2017 Zimbabwe’s former vice-president‚ Emmerson Mnangagwa‚ on Tuesday morning rejected overtures from his former boss‚ President Robert Mugabe‚ to hold a meeting with him in order to discuss the present crisis engulfing the country. Instead‚ Mnangagwa said he would only return to the country when there was a guarantee of his… November 21, 2017