Anticipation built on Sunday for Tiger Woods’s return to the Masters, with ticket scalpers already offering prized passes to the unfolding drama at the year’s first major golf tournament. Players travelled down Magnolia Lane to the Augusta clubhouse on the eve of the first official practice session for the 82nd Masters, where 14-time major winner Woods will try for a fifth green jacket after his fourth back operation. “I’m just there to win,” Woods said. “I’ve been better with each week, a little more crisp. I’m starting to put the pieces together.” Woods missed his third Masters in four years last year after spinal fusion surgery, but has contended in his past two starts, sharing fifth at the Arnold Palmer Invitational and second at the Valspar Championship. “It’s fantastic what we’re seeing of Tiger. He looks in control of his game,” Britain’s Justin Rose, last year’s Masters runner-up, said. Woods, who at a low point doubted he would ever play competitive golf again, has seen interest in his comeback tale at age 42 send resale prices for Masters badges soaring several thousand dollars. “I got a second chance on life,” Woods said. “I am a walking miracle.” Woods has not won a major since the 2008 US Open, has not won a tournament since the 2013 WGC Bridgestone Invitational, has not played in a major since missing the cut at the 2015 PGA Championship and last won the Masters in 2005. “I’m just really looking forward to playing,” Woods said. “It’s the best-run tournament in the world. The golf course, the patrons, the entire atmosphere – it’s a golfer’s heaven.” A streak of 12 rounds at par or better has shown Woods has regained his health. This week will tell if he has found the form that made him a global superstar. “It’s a lot different than the first two comebacks. He wasn’t ready,” Australia’s Jason Day said. “Now he’s hitting it longer than before.” That’s part of the reason some oddsmakers have made Woods the tournament favourite. “That’s kind of funny,” Woods said. “Six months ago the odds were I wasn’t even going to play.” Woods played two nine-hole practice rounds two weeks ago at the Augusta National, his first at the course since the final round in 2015. “They resurfaced a few of the greens but they still look like they have been there for 100 years,” Woods said. Woods delights Masters crowds with strong practice round TIGER Woods thrilled Masters fans with a strong practice round on Monday at Augusta National, his solid chips and approach shots signalling a return to form by the 14-time major champion. Woods, who missed last year’s Masters due to back surgery, excited… April 8, 2015 Golf superstar Tiger Woods was charged with driving under the influence by police in Florida on Monday, dealing a fresh blow to the former world number one as he struggles to resurrect his career. The 14-time major champion was booked into the Palm Beach County jail at 7:18 am (1118… May 30, 2017 TIGER Woods reaches his 40th birthday tomorrow, still recovering from a third back operation, with no timetable for another golf comeback and amid comments about ending his epic career. Former world No 1 Woods has 14 major titles, four shy of the all-time record set by Jack Nicklaus, and 79… December 29, 2015