The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’s contract with Mohlaleng Media was thrust into the spotlight again this weekend, this time by UDM leader Bantu Holomisa. He took to social media to lash out at How to Steal a City author Crispian Olver, saying he may have personal ties with the company that pocketed more than R20-million from the metro. Mohlaleng Media, a Johannesburg company, was given a multimillion-rand communications tender in 2015. A year and-a-half into the contract, the city had given the firm carte blanche to spend as it pleased after lifting the cap on what was initially a R10-million tender. Halfway into its contract, the firm had already spent R20.8 million, prompting new Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip to freeze the contract and launch a forensic inquiry. On Friday, after posting an article about Bay UDM councillor Mongameli Bobani, Olver commented on Holomisa’s post on Twitter, saying “Bobani is deeply compromised and discredits your organisation, General”. Holomisa responded: “On which evidence do u claim “deeply compromised”. In 9 references [to Bobani] in ur book u offered no criminal evidence.” Olver said Bobani was not referred to as “Mr50K” for nothing. “Just follow the record of his council and committee interventions, casting aspersions on every effort at cleaning up administration and defending the most compromised of managers,” the author said. The UDM leader said the How to Steal A City author was the compromised one. “Tell the nation what ur role in R10-million paid to Mohlaleng,” he said “I’ll wait for your answer. Let’s see who is a main suspect between u & Bobani.” In his book, Olver wrote that Mohlaleng Media’s Cheslyn Mostert had suggested they use municipal funds for political purposes by boosting former mayor Danny Jordaan’s profile prior to the local government elections. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa reaffirmed his party’s commitment to the coalition government in charge of the Nelson Mandela Bay metro council. Addressing hundreds of UDM supporters in Kwazakhele, Holomisa said tensions between mayor Athol Trollip and his deputy, Mongameli Bobani, had been blown out of proportion by the ANC, which… February 20, 2017 Auditor-general asked to either take over probe into Bobani or appoint replacement for PwC UDM president Bantu Holomisa has asked the auditor-general to intervene in an ongoing investigation by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC). The call came after the auditing firm had sent questions to former Nelson Mandela Bay deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani.… October 26, 2017 UDM hoping to meet DA after deputy mayor called by party bosses to explain row A third round of crisis talks to resolve the impasse within the Nelson Mandela Bay coalition is expected to take place soon, with the UDM’s national bosses hoping for a meeting with the DA leadership… May 11, 2017