Two police officers were surprised at being caught red-handed allegedly accepting a bribe from a member of the public in a restaurant in Cape Town. The arrest was captured on video and shows how police swooped on a 48-year-old police captain and a 56-year-old warrant officer who were seated together at a restaurant at Zevenwacht Mall in Kuilsriver on Friday. The men appeared to be surprised. While the warrant officer was being stripped of his official police badges and handcuffed in front of restaurant patrons‚ his only question was: “What’s happening now?” Western Cape police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said the men were charged with corruption “after they accepted a bribe from a member of the public”. TimesLIVE understands the alleged bribe was related to the return of a firearm to a member of the public. “The two suspects are due to make a court appearance this morning (Monday) in the Kuilsriver Magistrate’s Court to face the charge against them‚” Rwexana said. A Cape Town sergeant has been suspended pending an investigation into a video of a grandmother being assaulted, Western Cape police said on Thursday (04/12/2014). The officers seen manhandling and assaulting a woman in full view of the public were based at the Kraaifontein police station, Colonel Tembinkosi Kinana said.… December 4, 2014 Zwanga Mukhuthu, Rhea Macdonald and Olona Tywabi POLICE Minister Nathi Mthethwa wants the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) to investigate "systematic corruption” within the police. This, he said, included bribes, the embezzlement of funds and incidences where members of the public "bought” jobs in the SAPS. Opening a two-day "systematic… July 4, 2012 Two Nyanga police officers were apprehended on Monday morning and are to face charges of house robbery. A statement from the Western Cape South African Police Service (SAPS) said the arrests were made by the provincial Organised Crime Unit. “One member was on duty and the other was arrested at… April 4, 2016