Today I thought I would share a simple décor DIY, which makes a lovely gift and can be used for a variety of things. I did this for my son’s room a while back (I’m talking two years or so) and it is still going strong. He has plain white blinds and I was looking for a way to cheer it up a little and this is what I came up with. It actually took me three days to do but not continuously, as it is just that there is lots of drying out to do – it took me like 10 minutes a day, so it’s actually quite quick. You need – air dry clay, a star cookie cutter, a straw, string. Knead the clay and roll it out, then cut out the seven star shapes. Use the straw to punch out holes to make the stars pendants of sorts and leave to dry overnight. Using acrylic paint, paint your stars in your shades of choice. Leave to dry, do other side and then leave to dry completely overnight. Cut four longish (20cm) pieces of string and four shorter (15cm), also cut one the length you want your entire bunting to be. Attach the pieces of string to the stars. For this project I went with red stars on the longer pieces and yellow and orange ones on the shorter pieces. Start in the centre of the long rope and attach evenly (short long, short long) on either side. That’s it, ready to hang up! Just Ella Bella blogger Eleanor Douglas-Meyers shares DIY tips for hand-painted sneakers.       The other day I got it into my head to paint a pair of sneakers by hand, so I grabbed some fabric paint (I have a decent collection but you can buy a full set… February 28, 2018 Crafty blogger Eleanor Douglas-Meyers of Just Ella Bella has an idea for a crazy easy stocking stuffer today.       When last did I do a DIY toy? When last did I do a DIY anything? For those of you who aren’t familiar with my blog, I used to… December 6, 2017 Eleanor Douglas-Meyers is a crafty mom from Uitenhage who writes about DIY, parenting, natural hair care, fashion, food and fun on her blog JustEllaBella. Today she shows My HeraldLIVE readers how to make DIY paint markers.     I made DIY paint markers for Aidan using empty roll-on deodorant bottles… March 8, 2017