Disqualification of defending champ leaves 50m butterfly open for star Chad Le Clos will tonight try to secure the Commonwealth Games gold medal he was potentially gifted when the 50m butterfly favourite was disqualified in yesterday’s heats. England’s defending champion Ben Proud was quickest over the single lap in the open-air pool by far‚ but he was adjudged to have false started‚ leaving the South African star in pole position. Le Clos has a busy night in store in Gold Coast‚ also hunting the 200m freestyle gold as well as a medal in the 4x100m freestyle relay. Three gongs in one night would be one heck of a return – two of them gold would be awesome. “You could say I’m probably a slight favourite [in the 50m ’fly]‚” Le Clos said. He was quickest in the one-lapper in both the heats and semifinals‚ touching in 23.53sec on both occasions. “If I can get on top of the podium it will be great‚ but I’ve got a big 200m freestyle 10 minutes later after that.” Also in the 50m ’fly mix is countryman Ryan Coetzee‚ an accounting student in Tennessee, who clocked a 23.79 personal best for the joint second-fastest time overall alongside Australia’s Grant Irvine. “That was a great swim by Ryan‚” Le Clos said. “It’s quite funny because we did some time trials‚ five‚ six days ago and he kicked my ass in all of them. If we can both be on the podium tomorrow, that would be great.” This would be the second Games in a row where two South African swimmers win medals in the 50m butterfly‚ after third-placed Le Clos and now retired Roland Schoeman at Glasgow 2014. Coetzee admitted he had been nervous in the morning‚ but competing in the lane next to Le Clos in the semifinal had helped calm his nerves‚ especially after the hours they spent training together recently. In the 200m freestyle‚ Le Clos‚ the Olympic silver medallist‚ will go up against Englishman James Guy‚ third in the 400m last night behind Australia’s winner‚ Olympic champion Mack Horton. Le Clos‚ Coetzee and Henri Schoeman’s triathlon gold‚ which lifted SA to joint fifth on the medals table‚ were among the few highlights for South Africa on the opening day of the Games. Elsewhere, there were mixed results. On the positive side‚ Tatjana Schoenmaker made the 50m breaststroke final‚ a good sign ahead of her premier 200m event. And on the bowling greens‚ Colleen Piketh‚ the singles bronze medallist four years ago‚ won her opening match 21-13 against Catherine Beattie, of Northern Ireland‚ the men’s pairs edged Wales 17-15 and the women’s fours beat Zambia 17-10. But the men’s trips crashed 6-22 to Wales and the mixed pairs were hammered 3-26 by Australia. The open triples and women’s fours both tied their matches‚ against England and Norfolk Island respectively. The women’s hockey team went down 0-2 to England and the men 2-4 to Scotland. The men’s and women’s 4000m team pursuit cycling teams were unable to advance‚ and the mixed badminton side slid to a 0-5 defeat to Australia. South African swimming’s golden boy Chad Le Clos will finally live his dream at the Commonwealth Games when he races in swimming’s blue riband event. Le Clos will take part in 100m freestyle‚ the one contest he had always dreamed of‚ but had been prevented from because of a clash… April 3, 2018 CHAD le Clos’s coach, Graham Hill, says his protege will compete in more than two events at the Rio Olympics. But apart from the obvious butterfly races, Hill does not want to reveal his star’s hand yet. Hill said Le Clos’s plans would become public once the Olympic entries were… February 1, 2016 WAYDE van Niekerk and Chad le Clos have the potential to create rare history for South Africa at the Olympics next year – if they were to win at least two medals each. That would be the first time in 64 years that South Africa could boast two multi-medallists at… July 16, 2015