Former president emphasises need to focus on new challenges, not just past The government and the ANC must invest in the youth if they do not want to fall like apartheid or the Roman empire‚ former president Kgalema Motlanthe warned yesterday. He was speaking at St Mary’s Cathedral in Johannesburg at a service commemorating the life of late struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. “Far mightier systems‚ the system of apartheid‚ the Roman empire‚ the Mongolian empire‚ the British empire, came and fell,” he said. Motlanthe warned the government against overindulging in celebrating the past. “When you celebrate‚ you don’t focus on the challenges of the day. “Then, of course, the statue is mounted. We come back to unveil the statue‚ it’s another occasion for celebration‚ so you roll out the red carpet for celebration of the past. “The net effect of that is that the younger people who were not born in that past get cut off. “Young people bring with them energy and radical perspectives‚ because the older we become‚ the easier it becomes for us to adapt to circumstances.” He said the past‚ present and future were a continuum. “We need to draw important lessons from the past for us to confront the present challenges as we lay down the solid foundation for the future. “Past‚ present [and] future are not separated or divided or sliced up by Chinese walls.” The church service was to celebrate the life of Madikizela-Mandela‚ who died in a Johannesburg hospital on Monday last week at the age of 81 after a long illness. Motlanthe said Madikizela-Mandela had been courageous and brave in the fight against apartheid. “She had a choice. As the first black female to qualify as a medical social worker‚ she could have led a normal life. “Madiba‚ her husband‚ also had a choice‚ so did Oliver Tambo‚ so did Walter Sisulu‚ but they chose to take the fight on behalf of the downtrodden and oppressed people of our country.” He said the apartheid government had failed to break Madikizela-Mandela by banishing her to Brandfort in the Free State. “We should not indulge in fault-finding, because who are we to judge? “Who are we to judge when we were not subjected to what she was subjected to?” THE tripartite alliance is dead and whoever believes otherwise is delusional‚ former president Kgalema Motlanthe said this weekend. Motlanthe said the Congress of SA Trade Unions (Cosatu) and the SA Communist Party (SACP)‚ formerly independent ideological partners of the ANC, had lost their way and the alliance only existed in… November 2, 2015 Recent events at state enterprise Eskom show the extent to which public resources are being abused‚ former president Kgalema Motlanthe said on Thursday. Motlanthe was speaking at the launch of social justice organisation Oxfam South Africa on Thursday in Johannesburg‚ coinciding with Africa Day celebrations. “Eskom is the biggest industrial… May 25, 2017 Mkhululi Ndamase AN ANC veterans' leader warned yesterday against the party making unrealistic promises in its election manifesto. Regional Veterans' League chairman Douglas Tyutyu was speaking at the launch of four Alex Matikinca Veterans' Cluster branches in Motherwell. He told about 70 ANC and ANC Women's League veterans that the… January 30, 2014