Spectacular show that it was, the DA held its national congress in Tshwane at the weekend to much fanfare and celebration of the party’s growth since leader Mmusi Maimane took over the reins three years ago. Carefully choreographed, the moment was also to showcase – uncritically – its performance in the metros it governs. The party is positioning itself as the only credible alternative to take over government should the ANC fail to retain power in next year’s general election. In an impassioned speech on Saturday, Maimane hit out at critics who label the DA a “white party”. “They even say that I am a puppet of white people and, if we win an election, I will be replaced by a white person,” Maimane told the 2 000strong crowd. “The truth is that I will never be black enough for them. Because they don’t want black people to think for themselves. “They want black people to remain trapped in the politics of race because this is what keeps the ANC in power.” Indeed, Maimane is correct in his assertion that the DA is the most diverse party – at least as far as its membership and support is concerned. However, it is its representation at its most crucial decision-making levels that is, in fact, the issue. This is precisely why the diversity clause introduced to its constitution was perhaps the most contested part of the congress. Maimane’s version implored that the party “to the best of its ability attempt to replicate diversity in its own ranks”. However, this was interpreted by its opponents as an attempt to introduce racial quotas into the largely liberal party. And thus it was replaced by a far more liberal version that promises to “take active steps to promote and advance diversity in its own ranks”. Yesterday, Maimane insisted that the adopted version was, in fact, an even better vehicle to achieve transformation in the party. This is most certainly debatable. Ultimately, its effectiveness will depend on the will of its leaders to give practical meaning to undoing what is indeed the biggest challenge to the DA’s credibility. THE DA federal congress held in Nelson Mandela Bay Metro will be determined by history if it was good for the DA or not. I am certain the founding fathers of the DA will be turning in their graves because it was never their intention that the DA should have… May 13, 2015 Maimane visits Bay to warn on motives of those who want Trollip out The DA is desperately trying to gain the sympathy and backing of Nelson Mandela Bay residents ahead of the no-confidence motion set to be tabled against mayor Athol Trollip next week. The party is even seeking divine… March 21, 2018 In an interview in 1996, Peter Brown – the late leader of the erstwhile Liberal Party – predicted: “There may come a time when the ANC starts to disintegrate or to produce factions . . . there will be an opportunity to form a fully nonracial Liberal Party again. Something… August 17, 2016