Port Elizabeth’s star knitwear designer Laduma Ngxokolo is expanding his studio with the appointment of his sister Tina – also an acclaimed fashion designer – as creative director. “Tina has joined the company officially now, we all work together and she is the creative director of the atelier, as well as the production manager for our collection,” Laduma said on Monday, speaking from Nigeria, where he is showing his new MaXhosa by Laduma collection of men and womenswear. Sharp-eyed fashionistas may have noticed Tina’s influence on a few of the formal garments modelled by women during the MaXhosa by Laduma show last month at AFI Fashion Week in Cape Town. “She brought her style element in – Tina has her own brand and custom-makes evening dresses to order,” Laduma said. The Ngxokolo range was acclaimed by industry figures and the media, and marks the seventh year that Laduma has been running his own label. For his new collection, Laduma used 3-D glasses as accessories for his bright graphic patterns, which used op-art themes knitted into the canvas of his wearable art. “We are evolving,” he said. “The patterns that we use for the season have three-D effects, and that is why we used the glasses.” Laduma had unexpected support from Port Elizabeth, as another young designer who studied fashion at NMU – Armand Dicker – was one of his models on the ramp at AFI. ACCLAIMED knitwear designer Laduma Ngxokolo – one of Port Elizabeth's most celebrated young exports – is back home this week to present his range of men's and women's clothing at a pop-up beachfront boutique. He launched a women's range of knitwear at SA Fashion Week in April and has since… September 3, 2014 Gillian McAinsh KWADWESI student Tina Ngxokolo sewed up the competition when she won best range at the NMMU Collective Graduate Showcase and Fashion Show and took second spot in the mohair category. On Friday, the third-year fashion design student won a Bernina voucher for R4000 and R2000 cash from Heinz… November 6, 2012 Paving the way for other aspiring designers in the Bay, award-winning knitwear designer Laduma Ngxokolo teamed up with Chivas Regal to launch a five-part designer series at Roof Garden Bar in Central at the weekend. The first leg of the Laduma Design Business Talks with Chivas Regal kicked off on… February 27, 2017