Convicted racist Vicki Momberg has arrived in court after spending the past week in jail — and she’s sporting cornrows. Shocked gasps greeted Momberg’s arrival in courtroom 13 at the Randburg Magistrate’s Court in Johannesburg‚ where she was last week sentenced to an effective two years in jail for her racist rant against black police officials. n a video that went viral on social media‚ Momberg was recorded using the k-word 48 times and complaining about the calibre of “k***s” in Johannesburg. She pleaded not guilty to four charges of crimes injuria — defined as “a wilful injury to someone’s dignity‚ caused by the use of obscene or racially offensive language or gestures” – on the basis that she suffered from a form of temporary insanity. Momberg was convicted on all four charges and sentenced to an effective two years in jail. She’s appealing both her conviction and her sentence. That appeal application was on Wednesday postponed to April 11. Momberg’s attorneys have also requested copies and transcripts of the 10111 calls in which Momberg repeatedly uttered the k-word. Dan Roodt — who famously got into a skirmish at the Equality Court with Chester Missing over Steve Hofmeyr’s failed bid to get a protection order against the puppet — was in the courtroom for Momberg’s appearance. He told journalists he was there “to support another heretic”. Twitter users are responding to Momberg’s new look with both humour and disapproval:      – TimesLIVE Estate agent Vicki Momberg has been sentenced to two years' imprisonment by the Randburg Magistrate's Court. Momberg was found guilty on four counts of crimen injuria last year following her racist tirade in 2016. The court on Wednesday sentenced her to three years in jail‚ one of which was suspended… March 28, 2018 Convicted racist Vicki Momberg has spent her first night behind bars at the Johannesburg Correctional Services Centre‚ better known as Sun City. While the Sun City resort is a popular vacation spot‚ this Sun City stay will be anything but a holiday for the 49-year-old real estate agent who could… March 29, 2018 Vicki Momberg should be ordered to pay R150 000 to a policeman she racially insulted‚ the Equality Court heard on Monday. A submission by Clement Mkhondo and the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) in their case against Momberg said courts had in recent years recognised the need to act… May 29, 2017