The Telegraph’s Ross Dobson gives his version of pulled pork.  His recipe for the meltingly soft way of serving meat serves eight. For the spice rub: 2 tablespoons smoked paprika
2 tablespoons ground cumin
2 tablespoons soft brown sugar
1 tablespoon sea salt For the pork: 1.5kg pork neck To serve: 8 soft bread rolls
coleslaw
barbecue sauce Preheat oven to 220º Celsius. Combine all the spice rub ingredients in a bowl. Roll the pork around in the bowl to coat it all evenly in the spices. Place the pork in a roasting tin and pour in 250ml cold water. Transfer to the oven and bake for 40 minutes: depending on the size of your roasting tin, you may need to add more water to stop the spice mix burning. Remove the roasting tin from the oven and pour in another 250ml water. Cover the roasting tin with foil, making sure the edges are well sealed, and bake the pork for a further 2½ hours. Remove the roasting tin from the oven and leave it covered for about 1 hour. Remove the foil, then use cooking tongs to shred the pork meat, reserving the cooking liquid. Place the shredded pork in a bowl and pour the cooking juices all over the pork. Serve on soft rolls, with coleslaw and barbecue sauce. – The Telegraph I love this time of year when the festive season is almost upon us and we can start planning what we might serve to our loved ones at Christmas. For me the festive season is all about relaxed afternoons and chilled evenings, so I prefer dining al fresco style… November 25, 2017 FED up with the no-carb Banting brigade? If you prefer your bangers with real potatoes instead of with cauliflower mash, try South African chef Arnold Tanzer's smart twist on this classic comfort food recipe. It serves four and should take less than an hour to prepare. INGREDIENTS: 1kg potatoes, peeled… September 1, 2014 For the skewers: 1.5kg free-range pork belly 5 medium carrots 2 onions half a bunch of celery bulb of garlic 50ml cooking oil 5 sprigs of thyme 2 bay leaves salt and pepper Sticky Asian glaze: 100ml Indonesian soy 60ml soy sauce 100ml sweet chilli sauce 10ml sesame oil 30g… April 20, 2014