 Former president Jacob Zuma arrived at court in Durban on Friday to face corruption charges linked to a multi-billion dollar 1990s arms deal. Zuma, 75, smiled broadly and gave a thumbs-up as he walked up steps into the Durban High Court building, where he will appear at a brief preliminary hearing on the case.   Several hundred Zuma supporters rallied outside to protest against his prosecution, which comes after he resigned from office in February under mounting pressure from the ruling party. The case has been postponed to June 8.    “He might have his own mistakes, but we say allow the old man to retire in peace. It is a conspiracy, it’s politically motivated,” pro-Zuma business manager Sphelele Ngwane, 29, told AFP. On Thursday night more than 100 ardent backers rallied in Albert park in a gritty suburb of Durban to protest his innocence and demand a halt to the prosecution.    “There is an unfairness in the judiciary,” warned bishop Timothy Ngcobo, one of the organisers of Thursday’s gathering. The protesters sang liberation-era songs including “Umshini Wam”, meaning “Bring me my machine gun”, which Zuma often sang at ANC rallies and gatherings. – AFP Former president Jacob Zuma has been formally served with a summons to appear in court on corruption charges on April 6. Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi confirmed to TimesLIVE that the summons was served on Monday. The state and defence agreed on the April 6 date following a meeting held last… March 26, 2018 Former president Jacob Zuma is set to face the music —  soon he will be charged with the arms-deal corruption case and he might face ill-discipline charges by his party. The Sunday Times can reveal that the National Prosecuting Authority  is going to recommend  that some of the charges against… February 18, 2018 Former president Jacob Zuma’s lawyers have asked the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) to postpone his appearance in court next week. This is after Zuma was summoned to appear in the High Court in Durban on Friday next week. His lawyer‚ Michael Hulley‚ said they had written to the NPA asking… March 29, 2018