Kaiser Chiefs wanted a higher winning margin than their 1-0 victory over Baroka FC in the Nedbank Cup quarterfinal fixture at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Saturday night, coach Steve Komphela said. Erick Mathoho’s header in the first half saw the Amakhosi advance to the semifinals of the competition. The win kept Komphela’s hopes alive of landing some silverware at Chiefs‚ as his contract draws to an end. The coach said his players missed many scoring opportunities and going forward they would have to sharpen up on their finishing in front of goal. “I thought in the first half we could have at least gone into the dressing room with a 4-0 or 5-0 lead‚” he said. “It sounds crazy‚ but there were possibilities. “We are delighted with the victory and we appreciate the fact that we had nice support in Port Elizabeth‚” Komphela said. “We are happy with the performance and we are happy with the outcome‚ but the score line could have been better. “We’re just not happy with our finishing‚ we need to be clinical. “The only way to win matches convincingly is to hit the back of the net‚ which is [where] I thought we were a bit shy. “Going forward we need to go back again and look to the Absa Premiership – we have a match on Wednesday.” Komphela said it was crucial for Chiefs to win the Nedbank Cup trophy not only for the players‚ but for the management and supporters who have been patiently waiting for some silverware. “We have been to two cup finals‚ semifinals and all that. “You could see the number of people who were at the stadium. “They want to win trophies. “Chiefs is about winning trophies and it is their pride and we want to qualify that.” WINNING the MTN8 would reduce the pressure on Kaizer Chiefs and ease early-season nagging doubts about whether a new-look team will perform, Amakhosi coach Steve Komphela said ahead of his side’s semifinal first-leg match against Bloemfontein Celtic on Sunday. The first leg will be played at the Free State Stadium,… August 14, 2015 Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela said he was grateful that club boss Kaizer Motaung was a patient man and did not panic, even when Amakhosi were going through a rough patch. Chiefs finally ended their poor run of eight matches without a win when they beat Polokwane City 3-2 in… December 20, 2016 KAIZER Chiefs’ coach Steve Komphela is not a man who is short of words but the mechanical nature of his team’s 2-0 win over Golden Arrows on Tuesday resulted in only brief comments. Chiefs were not required to extend themselves, which is what they should have been subjected to after… February 4, 2016