Kwazakhele fighter now has three MMA victories under his belt A stunning early finish secured a hat-trick for Luthando Biko and cemented his place among the top contenders in the Extreme Fighting Championship. Fighting at GrandWest in Cape Town at the weekend, Biko, 28, managed to win his fourth MMA bout in spectacular fashion, finishing his opponent in the first round. This brings the Kwazakhele local’s record as a professional mixed martial artist to three wins and one defeat. Shortly after the bell rang for the start of the first round, Biko’s opponent, Warren Richards, threw some wild kicks. Biko managed to catch the last one, putting Richards off balance, giving him the opportunity to land a solid right-handed punch. “When I caught him with that overhand right he went down. I immediately jumped on him and landed some heavy blows,” Biko said yesterday. Once Richards landed on the canvas, Biko straddled him and rained down big punches and sharp elbows. Richards had no escape and covered up until the referee stepped in and called a stop to the fight. “My first few shots landed and I could see he started to panic. He was breathing heavily and he was giving up. “At that moment I knew the fight was almost over.” Despite sensing the end, Biko said the ref’s stoppage still caught him off guard and only a number of seconds after the fight was stopped did he realise he had won. “At that point you become very emotional. It is difficult to describe that feeling, because the one second you are still aggressive and fighting, and the next moment you have to stop being that person. “But once it sinks in that you have won, there is no better feeling in the world,” Biko said. He said he looked forward to a quick rest and then getting right back into training. “I want to get as many fights under my belt as possible. And if everything goes well I want to push for a title fight before the end of this year.” His teammate, and trainer at the Port Elizabeth Submission Fighting Academy, Chris Bright, fought at the same event at the weekend, but lost to Dave “Pain Train” Mazany in the second round. Bright managed to knock the American down late in the first round, nearly ending the fight with a straight right hand. However, Mazany came back in the second, hitting Bright with a left hook and finishing the fight with strikes on the ground. Their bout was voted as the Fight of the Night. Speaking after the fight, Bright, 44, praised his opponent and said he looked forward to his next outing. “Dave caught me and these things happen. It felt good stepping back in the cage and I can’t wait to do it again,” Bright said. Weeks of hard work will be put to test against upper-drawer opponents Two of the Bay’s best fighters will be heading to Cape Town this week to stake their claim in the Extreme Fighting Championship’s next event. Weeks of hard work will be put to the test when Mixed Martial… March 27, 2018 Port Elizabeth fighter Luthando Biko won his second consecutive mixed martial arts (MMA) bout in the Extreme Fighting Championship by defeating Devon Cronje at the Sibaya Casino in Durban last night. Biko and Cronje were very evenly matched in the first two rounds, but a dominant third round by Biko… October 8, 2017 Two set for international competition Port Elizabeth will be sending its own one-two combination to compete in the International Mixed Martial Arts Federation’s Amateur African Open Championship next week. The up-and-coming young amateur fighting duo of Reece van der Merwe and Luthando Biko have been included in the South African… August 25, 2016