A grieving Motherwell family told yesterday how they waited in hope that their daughter would return home safe and unharmed. Their hopes were dashed when they received a call that a body, matching the description of Nomazibulo Masebe, 29, had been found in bushes near Scribante Cement, near Motherwell. They had then identified Masebe’s body at the morgue at the New Brighton police station. The body of the mother of one was found between the M17 and old Grahamstown road on Friday by a cattle herder who contacted the police, spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said. “She was found under rubble and bushes. At this stage, the cause of death is unknown,” Beetge said. Masebe was found naked from the waist down and had bruises and scratches on her legs. Her aunt, Nosipho Masebe, said the family had last seen her on March 31, when she came to the house to change her clothes. “She has a nine-year-old girl and she’s never gone that long without seeing her,” she said. Nosipho described her niece as someone who had a lot of friends. Another aunt, Nomandla Masebe, said even though her niece was unemployed, she had made sure that her daughter had everything she needed. Police look for mother after little girl left to die in bushes A three-day-old baby – partially covered in soil – was found on Tuesday after being dumped and left to die in the bushes near Kwadwesi. Police and social workers are looking for the mother or relatives of the… October 19, 2017 Mother and daughters killed execution-style IN a horrific and puzzling triple murder, a Port Elizabeth mother and her teenage daughters – shot in an execution-style hit – appear to have tried to barricade themselves into their home using a couch. The victims were killed in their Govan Mbeki township home… January 20, 2016 Victims’ remains mutilated, charred beyond recognition In a gruesome early morning discovery, the brutalised bodies of two suspected murder victims, both injured beyond recognition, were found at two separate locations in Motherwell on the outskirts of Port Elizabeth yesterday. Police, who are investigating the possibility that one of the victims… August 30, 2016