South African property icon and businesswoman Pam Golding‚ 90‚ died yesterday. Spokeswoman Anel Lewis‚ on behalf of Pam Golding Properties‚ said in a statement Golding passed away peacefully at her house in Constantia, Cape Town. Golding started Pam Golding Properties in 1976 and it mushroomed into a thriving business empire. She described the humble beginnings of her property empire in an interview with the Independent UK in 2009. “I just got this idea one day. We were a typical‚ young married couple with two small children. We had just bought our first house but had nothing much else – no furniture. “People told me I was mad to start a business in the market as it was then. But I thought to myself‚ if I can survive in this market‚ business will fly when things improve.” Describing one of her many high-profile customers‚ she recalled getting a telephone call from former president Nelson Mandela for whom she found the perfect home. “I was in bed at home early one morning when the telephone rang. It was around 6.30 and this voice said: ‘I am putting you through to the President of South Africa’. Of course‚ I thought it was a hoax. “Then I heard this famous voice. Well‚ I got out of bed in no time. And I had to put on a dressing gown – I couldn’t talk to the president of South Africa wearing only a nightie.” Lewis said the Pam Golding Property Group was launched when the property industry was “male-dominated and still somewhat of a ‘home industry’ ”. Golding opened an office in London in 1986 “at a time when the country’s international image was at its worst”. Pam Golding Properties currently has more than 300 offices across Africa‚ Europe and the Indian Ocean Islands. Golding leaves her sons Peter and Andrew‚ daughter Jilly‚ their spouses and 10 grandchildren. “Admired and respected by clients and dearly loved by colleagues‚ agents and staff alike‚ her natural warmth and sincere interest in everyone she encountered were trademark characteristics,” Lewis said. THE name Ian Olivier is synonymous with property. As principal of Ian Olivier Properties, he has developed a firm following, based on sound ethics and commitment to customer service. Proving that dreams do come true and that hard work pays off, Olivier recently realised a goal that he set for… August 12, 2013 The Eastern Cape residential property market is tipped for renewed growth in the coming months, with the Bay metro in particular showing a very healthy recovery. Despite a lacklustre national economy, the city registered average house price inflation of 5.4% during the first half of the year, making it the… November 20, 2016 Cindy Preller DESPITE celebrating his 50th birthday earlier this month, there is no slowing down for property guru Ian Olivier. This dynamic businessman is a well-known name in the Port Elizabeth property industry with almost 25 years of experience in the field. Having recently joined Pam Golding Properties (PGP) as… December 9, 2013