The Baakens Food Truck Friday (BFTF) next week will feature Jeffreys Bay indie-soul act Steven Sawyer, accompanied by his band. The first BFTF of the year on January 19 will also have a lineup of DJs including Kumnandi, from New Brighton, and female DJ Missjay, of the Sam Jam Session Series. Professional surfer Sawyer describes the music he plays as a blend of “blues, reggae and groove”. “My current occupation is shaping surfboards and surfing professionally, with music as my stress release,” he said. “When I am home, I play music between Port Elizabeth and St Francis. “Other than that, wherever I am around the world surfing contests, I get to do a few gigs. “Growing up surfing all of my life, I feel that my music is heavily influenced by the blues of the ocean.” Sawyer, nicknamed “Steezie”, started playing guitar when he was only nine, singing when he was 14 and writing songs at 17. On the food truck front, all the usual vendors will be back. “We will have something for everyone: artisanal wood-fired pizzas, Asian noodles and dim sum, German bratwurst, halaal curries and burgers, coffee, desserts, vegetarian options and more,” Tayla Foong said on behalf of the organisers. A pop-up craft and design market curated by WERK_ will occupy the indoor warehouse space, reflecting local Eastern Cape Design. Entrance is free and no meals exceed R50. The outdoor family night market is from 4-9pm. The world’s best surfers took to the water for a full day of exciting action at Jeffreys Bay as the J-Bay Open, Stop No 6 on the 2016 Samsung Galaxy World Surf League (WSL) Championship Tour, got under way yesterday. Competition ran through round 1 and the opening four heats… July 7, 2016 A RETIRED Port Elizabeth nurse has brought some relief – and a smile – to the face of a seven-year-old girl living with elephantiasis. Grandmother-of-three Penny Sawyer first became aware of Lerato Tom's condition after seeing a report in The Herald in February. The report described how, because of the… August 6, 2014 Hi darlings, it is that time of the week where you sit back, put your feet up and find out what the crazies and blesser searching community get up to this weekend. So Friday I went to check out the first Food Truck Friday of the year in Baakens Valley.… January 27, 2017