 Miss Universe Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters arrived at OR Tambo International Airport on Wednesday morning to a frenzy of media and excited fans. This is the first time that Demi has returned home since clinching the prestigious Miss Universe crown two months ago. Dressed in a elegant red jumpsuit‚ Demi-Leigh looked radiantly gorgeous. Hundreds of fans with posters cheered and clapped as our girl made her grand entrance. Demi stopped to greet and take pictures with excited fans. Demi-Leigh will be in the country for a week of celebrations‚ which includes a welcome party at Cape Town International and a street parade in Sedgefield where she grew up. “Our nation is comprised of many different backgrounds and cultures‚ one of the many things that makes me immensely proud to be a South African. I am very excited to celebrate this achievement with my people in the spirit of Mzansi.”  #southafrica #missuniverse A post shared by  Demi-Leigh | Miss Universe (@demileighnp) on Jan 23, 2018 at 11:49pm PST  Welcome home, @demileighnp A post shared by  Miss South Africa (@official_misssa) on Jan 23, 2018 at 11:29pm PST  Eating NY cheese cake on a bench in Times Square.... Bucket list item  #missuniverse #newyork #cheesecake #timessquare A post shared by Demi-Leigh | Miss Universe (@demileighnp) on Nov 29, 2017 at 9:34am PST From being crowned Miss SA‚ to having fellow contestants accuse the pageant of bias and being… December 4, 2017 As she touches down at O R Tambo International Airport from New York on Wednesday morning‚ Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters’s number one fan‚ cheerleader and a woman who has known her through out her life‚ Anna-Marie Steenkamp‚ will be in the crowd who will welcoming the recently crowned Miss Universe back to… January 24, 2018 Two months after clinching the Miss Universe crown‚ Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters will return to South Africa for a week-long celebration. A sparkling Nel-Peters became the second South African in 39 years to clinch the Miss Universe title, when she was crowned at the glitzy pageant in Las Vegas on November 26. Since… January 17, 2018