Due to national network problems, Live Enrolment Unit (LEU) machines at the Korsten Traffic and Licensing Centre are processing transactions at a very slow rate and machines at the Uitenhage Traffic and Licensing Centre are completely offline. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Member of the Mayoral Committee for Safety and Security, Cllr John Best, said the municipality had no option but to close the Korsten Traffic and Licensing by 2:30pm to ensure that those clients in the queue were assisted before end of business today. “We are in regular contact with the national Department of Transport to ensure that they are giving this matter the necessary attention it deserves. “On behalf of the municipality, I would like to apologise to residents inconvenienced by this unforeseen problem. We will keep you updated on our municipal platforms and through traditional media channels regarding any new developments concerning services at our Traffic and Licensing service centres. Thank you for your patience,” MMC Best said. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Portfolio Committee Chairperson for Safety and Security Thembinkosi Mafana requests residents to take note that the Korsten and Uitenhage Driving Licence Testing Centres will close at 10am on Friday, 28 November. “All other Traffic and Licensing Offices will close at 11am and services will return back… November 26, 2014 THE traffic and licensing services of our municipality in Korsten have surely earned the label "Hooligan of the Year"! Unless something drastic happens to improve the service delivery of that department and the image of the entire division, they will have won it, hands down. I have had first-hand experience… June 28, 2013 Mkhululi Ndamase THE Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality yesterday committed to paying the Korsten traffic department workers their two months' overtime money – ending the eight-day disruption in services. The agreement to pay the January and February overtime money by Tuesday was reached between the SA Municipal Workers' Union (Samwu) and… April 4, 2013