A Motherwell jikeleza driver was killed in a suspected mob justice attack shortly after allegedly stabbing his best friend to death during a heated argument over the day’s business takings. Mabuti Maya, 34 – also a jikeleza driver – was fatally stabbed in the altercation with his friend Bulelani Ndalambi, 28. The police said the men were best friends and both were jikeleza drivers. Maya was allegedly murdered in a house in Sisulu Street, Motherwell, on Sunday at about 2pm in an argument with Ndalambi over taxi fare money, police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said. “Residents gathered and chased Ndalambi out of suspected revenge and killed him by setting him alight,” he said. Motherwell Cluster commander MajorGeneral Dawie Rabie said that taxi issues should be resolved amicably. Eastern Cape provincial commissioner Lieutenant-General Liziwe Ntshinga condemned the incident and warned that unlawful behaviour would not be tolerated. No one had the right to take the law into their own hands and those responsible would be brought before court, she said. Informal taxis ever-present in Bay as cheap mode of transport – but not all impressed Love, hate or even fear them, but South Africa’s unique jikeleza informal public transport services have become an integral part of inner township travel in Nelson Mandela Bay due to their affordability and convenience. And… October 23, 2017 A notorious stretch of road linking Motherwell to Kwazakhele saw a total of 1 305 accidents and 20 deaths between January last year and July this year, prompting residents to hold a prayer session on the M17 yesterday. In a desperate bid to attract the attention of authorities, more than… September 25, 2017 The DA’s Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga, has confirmed that a municipal security officer assigned to him was involved in an accident in which two people were killed on Saturday night. While Bhanga said he could not reveal the driver’s identity, he confirmed the man was in a critical condition… October 27, 2017