The search for the woman who abandoned her premature baby girl at the Dora Nginza Hospital last week has been extended to KwaZulu-Natal. Dora Nginza social worker Pamela Rubushe said they had discovered that the mother had used the fake name of Anelisa Tesana and only a partial identity number to book herself into the hospital, where she gave birth. The address she supplied was also fake and the phone numbers she gave go unanswered. She said they had now discovered the real name of the mother was Ntombofuthi Nokwazi Mdlalos. “She is from KwaZulu-Natal. She has another child,” Rubushe said. She said she had asked the Department of Social Development to stop the child grant for the abandoned baby. The girl, who was born several weeks premature, weighed only 1.3kg after a month in the neonatal intensive care unit. Rubushe said the mother had disappeared after she was moved from the labour ward to the neonatal unit to be closer to her child. “I ask that she and her family come forward as soon as possible,” Rubushe said. Rubushe can be contacted on 041-406-4328. A premature baby, barely weighing a kilogram, has been abandoned at Dora Nginza Hospital. Social worker Pamela Rubushe said they are urgently looking for the mother of the child or her family. The little girl, who was born several weeks premature only weighs 1.3 kgs after a month in the… January 19, 2018 THE teenage mother who abandoned her baby at Dora Nginza Hospital earlier this week and disappeared was arrested late yesterday afternoon – while buying beer in a bar. Hospital social worker Pamela Rubushe said she had been inundated with calls from people who provided information to help her trace the… April 1, 2016 DORA Nginza Hospital social worker Pamela Rubushe is looking for the family of a baby girl admitted to hospital shortly after her birth last week. The baby’s mother, Junaid Bardien, 19, left the infant at the hospital and disappeared. “She gave birth somewhere outside the hospital. She was brought to… March 31, 2016