UK TV personality Katie Hopkins – once known as “Britain’s most controversial columnist” – is heading to South Africa to report on farm murders‚ which she claims are a result of anti-white ethnic cleansing.  In her career as a British journalist‚ Hopkins has attacked Muslims‚ called migrants “cockroaches” and left two media jobs after controversial statements. The former talk show host has almost 900 000 Twitter followers. She writes for Rebel Media‚ a conservative Canadian website‚ with mostly white writers‚ self-described as a “fearless source of news‚ opinion‚ and activism that you won’t find anywhere else“. South African farmers last year protested against their lack of safety and farm killings on a day dubbed Black Monday. Hopkins tweeted afterwards she would travel to South Africa to expose “#plaasmoorde“. Hopkins believes farm murders and the brutality of the attacks are being ignored in South Africa‚ due to the race of the victims.  She contacted rights group AfriForum‚ which put in her in touch with farmers‚ deputy CEO Ernst Roets explained. Asked by TimesLIVE if AfriForum wanted to be associated with such a controversial character‚ Roets said Hopkins had a large audience and the organisation would welcome any publicity on farm murders. She is expected in the country this coming weekend or next week‚ he said. Hopkins has continued to tweet about South African farm attacks and weighed in on the vandalism of H& M stores by Economic Freedom Fighter (EFF) supporters in the past few days.  In 2015‚ when Donald Trump was campaigning for the American presidency and suggested banning all Muslims coming into the US‚ Hopkins supported him in her columns. Trump then thanked Hopkins on Twitter for her “powerful writing on the UK’s Muslim problems”‚ describing her as a “respected columnist”. Hours after the Manchester bombing at an Ariana Grande concert in May last year‚ she called on Twitter for a “final solution”. Hopkins tweeted: “22 dead – number rising. Schofield. Don’t you even dare. Do not be a part of the problem. We need a final solution Manchester.” Her tweet was widely interpreted as alluding to the Nazi description of the “final solution” – a plan to exterminate Jews. Hopkins deleted the tweet and claimed the words “final solution” were an error and she meant a “true solution”. She left her job at LBC radio‚ after the tweet. Hopkins described migrants trying to access Britain in 2015 as “feral humans” who were “spreading like a norovirus” – a highly contagious stomach bug. The United Nations was outraged. “Under the guise of freedom of expression‚ [negative coverage is] being allowed to feed a vicious cycle of vilification‚ intolerance and politicization of migrants‚” UN High Commissioner Zeid Ra’ad Al Hussein said in a statement. Hopkins became famous as a contestant on reality TV shows. In 2013‚ she was interviewed on a morning TV show and said she would not allow her children to play with kids who had lower-class names‚ adding that she did not like names that were geographical. The TV host then pointed out that one of her own children was named India. She has described herself as a “snob” and “the biggest bitch in England”. – TimesLIVE Closet racists are coming out of the woodwork. Social media is awash with messages, from who I consider misguided people, inveigling support for Black Monday. Thousands of people are murdered every year. The Cape Flats has been declared a war zone, children have been killed in gang-related violence in Helenvale… November 6, 2017 First of all, I don’t condone the way these cattle were shot, but remember there are two sides to a penny. Let the court decide what the verdict is and take it from there – not toyi-toyi, damage and burn private and state property. This is the same as what… May 11, 2017 The African National Congress (ANC) has condemned the display of the apartheid South African flag during nationwide protests against farm murders on Monday. “The racial characterisation of crime and the stoking of racial hatred by some elements in the campaign through‚ amongst others‚ the arrogant and offensive display of apartheid… October 31, 2017