Look closely. Slowly, but surely the academic and organisational cultures of our universities are being broken down in front of our very eyes. This breakdown of campus cultures is being ruthlessly executed by the narrow interests of political parties who really do not care a damn about the future of higher learning in our country. Since 2015 these parties decided that there were two primary spaces in which to contest each other politically – in parliament and on campuses. With President Jacob Zuma effectively on his way out, political theatrics in parliament are now much less attractive than in places where tens of thousands of students descend on their college and university campuses for registration. Zuma started the rot when he opportunistically decided to announce free higher education as the ruling party entered its elective conference. This irresponsible decision flew in the face of the president’s own commission, led by Judge Heher, which studied the feasibility of free higher education and concluded that this ideal was not possible at present. The Zuma declaration was like a Christmas gift to the EFF, who decided to make political hay out of this sunshine announcement. Students, whether they had applied for studies or not, were instructed to simply “walk in” onto the 26 public university campuses and demand to be registered for studies – free, of course. No matter that universities have dates determined long in advance for applications. Or that in professional fields like medicine and physiotherapy those dates had closed as far back as mid-2017. Or that applications for state funding were also subject to closing dates. Nor did it matter that thousands of “walk-ins” demanding places could literally jeopardise the lives of young people, as in the tragic case of the mother of a student who was crushed to death in a 2012 UJ registration stampede. Anxious vice-chancellors through their organisation, Universities South Africa, responded to this tussle between Zuma and Julius Malema with a plea not to make the call for free higher education a political football. The problem, of course, is that South Africans like football. We ended last year on an ominous note. Our leading research university convened its final examinations in a massive marquee tent on a sports field to better manage the security risk of disruption. From a management point of view, I can see how this not only makes sense, it might also have been the only option available. But the barbed wire, patrol guards and attack dogs inevitably brought to mind images of concentration camps, not of cultured campuses. As a consequence of these developments, we are now faced with an interesting new trend among middle class students and that is internal migration. In this case the top academic students in the country increasingly choose from among the elite universities those institutions perceived to be more stable. Sad, but it makes sense. A high fee-paying parent is as interested in the quality of the degree as in the safety and security of his or her child. Several deans and heads of departments of our top two English-language universities have told me about how they are being affected by internal migration. Universities are like any other organisation in the sense that they need rules, regulations and routines for conducting their work. A prospective student applies and, if successful, is registered for a diploma or degree. At that point payment is made, enabling the student to pursue a course of studies, at the end of which the passing candidate graduates. That lengthy chain from application to graduation, where it involves 30 000 or more students, is an extremely complex process that is time-sensitive and cost-sensitive. When a populist leader, therefore, calls for “walk-ins” in defiance of these processes, it collapses not just the systems of an organisation, but the very culture universities seek to establish around things like timely applications for available places. As we enter 2018 I have little doubt that in the course of time even those universities perceived to be more stable will also be swallowed up by the demise of campus cultures under the reckless populism of political parties. Here you find one of the first threats to democracy – the destruction of public institutions. The township and rural schools serving the majority remain paralysed by decades of protests that effectively destroyed the cultures of these institutions. About half of our public universities are already in the same position – poor quality teaching institutions constantly battling disruptions of academic timetables and administrative systems. Now this demise threatens all our universities and when that happens, internal migration will be replaced by external migration among those who can afford to leave. REMOVING Jacob Zuma will not make the problems go away. Zuma is a symptom of the underlying malaise which I predicted before the 1994 elections – that a destructive socialist and Africanist paradigm will engulf the country. I wrote numerous letters to newspapers warning about the effects of widespread and… December 15, 2015 President Jacob Zuma has emerged from the scandal of former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s State of Capture report with the backing of the ANC’s national working committee. The committee instead questioned Madonsela’s findings. Zuma has survived a long list of scandals during his seven years as president, including Nkandla. He… November 9, 2016 There is speculation that the president might announce free higher education across the board. Where would the money come from? There is further speculation that he might follow the advice of a future son-in-law and cut departmental budgets to the tune of R40-billion to make this possible. If true, such… November 9, 2017