Trollip laments year ‘technically not of our making’ Poor asset management, shoddy bookkeeping and an R11.5-billion “hangover”. This is why Nelson Mandela Bay was slapped with a qualified audit opinion – for the sixth consecutive year – by auditor-general Kimi Makwetu. The 2016-17 financial year audit covered the last days of the ANC’s rule and the first 10 months of the coalition government. Makwetu’s findings were based on the city’s slack management of its property, plant and equipment (PPE). This means it was unable to correctly account for the value of its assets and infrastructure used to deliver services. Poor financial records and an R11.5-billion irregular expenditure bill dating back to 2002 also resulted in the qualified audit. The incurred irregular expenditure is a headache for city manager Johann Mettler. Although it reflected on the metro’s books, there were no records to explain what the money was spent on and why. “It is definitely a hangover,” Mettler said yesterday. “The money is still on our books as irregular expenditure and it will always be on our books unless council at an appropriate stage is satisfied that the money was used properly and they can write it off. “So I am stuck with stuff that happened 16 years ago.” Mettler said discussions with the national Treasury about putting in place proper mechanisms that would deal with the irregular expenditure without all financial statements were under way. The AG’s report also found R555-million in unauthorised expenditure, as a result of employee benefits which exceeded the budget. In July 2016, the municipality entered into an agreement with the SA Municipal Workers’ Union (Samwu) and the Independent Municipal and Allied Trade Union (Imatu) that the payment of long-service bonuses owed be implemented over a period of time. The report also found R621-million in wasteful expenditure which had accumulated over years and had not been recovered or written off. The AG’s report comes just days after it emerged that the city had achieved only 59% of its overall performance targets in the last six months, according to its mid-term performance report. Addressing the media yesterday, mayor Athol Trollip said while some of the findings were because of historic circumstances, “it is also a fact that the mid-term performance report is our baby”. “It is kind of a scrambled egg,” he said. “It is painful to sit here and have to account for a year that was technically not a year of our making. “Many of the contracts we are talking about were embarked on before we came into administration. “Document and file management has been non-existent – it has been decentralised to all the directorates and every time there’s an audit, you start looking for documents and they aren’t there, they are missing,” he said. In his report, Makwetu blamed poor leadership for a breakdown in internal controls. “Leadership did not take decisive steps to implement consequence management for poor performance of senior management and implement action plans.” This, the AG wrote, was evidenced by the recurring weaknesses in controls surrounding financial and records management as well as compliance. The suspension of chief financial officer Trevor Harper as well as vacancies in the financial management unit affected the municipality’s bookkeeping and reporting. Harper has been on suspension since November 2016 for payments made to Afrisec, a company that did work for the Integrated Public Transport System. With regard to creditors, Makwetu could not verify that the metro owed R207-million to service providers, as it reported. He also highlighted as a concern water and electricity losses which equated to millions of rand in lost revenue, thanks to ageing infrastructure and meter-tampering. According to the mid-term report, the metro lost 45% of its water supply in the five months to November and R172-million worth of electricity in the last six months. On procurement, Makwetu painted a chaotic picture where contracts were given to companies whose tax compliance was questionable. In some cases, contracts were dished out without a tender process while others were given to companies that did not score the highest points in the tendering process. Makwetu found that at times some municipal officials did not disclose when close family members had an interest in contracts awarded by the municipality. Trollip said he had discussed the report with Makwetu on Monday in an attempt to find the documents to convert the expenditure and hold people to account. Trollip said an action plan would be tabled in the budget and treasury committee to address the findings. The AG’s report and the mid-term performance report will be tabled in council tomorrow. Bay municipal officials wasted millions, more lost to irregular expenditure – auditor-general  NELSON Mandela Bay municipal officials were a law unto themselves between July 2014 and June last year, ignoring legislation and wasting money without any consequences. A damning audit report by the auditor-general for the 2014-15 financial year, which… February 1, 2016 AG slates lack of information and irregular expenditure January 25, 2014 Ward 2 DA councillor and DA whip Dean Biddulph outlines the problems facing the metro as uncovered by the municipal public accounts portfolio committee. January 25, 2014