A personal development course based on Julia Cameron’s iconic 1992 book The Artist’s Way will be presented in Port Elizabeth next month. Teacher and lecturer Dioné Johnson will present the 12-week course. As well as teaching English in Japan and working with individuals with learning difficulties, Johnson has lectured and has an honours degree in human movement studies and psychology. She described The Artist’s Way course in personal development as a chance for “personal transformation which allows you to explore your life and the hurdles that may be holding you back”. The Artist’s Way movement began more than 25 years ago when author Cameron shared her ideas with a few friends in her living room. The book has since been published around the world in 35 languages, and helped millions of people around the world discover, and recover, their creativity. “It was originally written as a course to help unblock artists and to assist them in their recovery, to reconnect to their creativity,” Johnson said, noting that it was not only useful for artists but for anyone interested in exploring personal development. “I personally did the course about 12 years ago and found it the most powerful experience of any process I have ever been through. “Of the seven people who were fully committed to the 12-week course, four of us were offered new positions even though we weren’t actively seeking them. I have personally been doing the same work ever since and still love what I do. I had never dreamt that there could be such a perfect occupation for me.” The course will be held at Johnson’s home in Humewood with a minimum of six participants, who need not be artists. “It will be run in a group format and requires some introspection and group discussion to come to some liberating conclusions,” said Johnson. “There is however no obligation to discuss anything you are not open to, just going through this meaningful process will inevitably lead you to some refreshing conclusions about your future and where you are heading.” Johnson recently returned from “an incredible, peaceful journey” through Japan and decided the time was right to present the course. It will run on a Monday night, starting on February 5. FOR the dozen students who have just finished a sought-after course in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (Tesol), language will be their passport to travel the world. Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University applied languages lecturer and Tesol trainer Eileen Sheckle finished presenting the one-month course last week to students… February 3, 2016 Top companies are increasingly introducing mindfulness practices into their organisations to help employees reduce stress and anxiety, increase focus and attention, and ultimately enhance productivity, and South African companies are starting to follow suit, a leadership expert says. “Mindfulness is no longer an opaque concept reserved for yoga retreats and… April 26, 2017 THREE Port Elizabeth sisters – an occupational therapist in the UK, a chef in the United Arab Emirates and a doctor in Nelson Mandela Bay – are hard at work establishing a library at their alma mater, Alpha Primary School in Gelvandale. Narelle Jacobs, 33, Delmé Jacobs, 31, and Britni… June 30, 2014