Department of Social Development spokesperson Lumka Oliphant has confirmed the department paid R5-million to the SABC for media exposure‚ including R149‚000 for the public broadcaster to interview the Social Development Minister. Oliphant made the disclosures to talkshow host Bongani Bingwa on 702 Talk Radio. Daily Maverick reported this week that half-a-million rand was paid for SABC host Anele Mdoda to interview Bathabile Dlamini on a light-hearted entertainment show. The department initially denied the claim and said : “The reports which are completely untrue are a display of gutter journalism to destroy anyone who dares to give a different narrative on Minister Bathabile Dlamini.” But Oliphant made an about-turn on air on Thursday morning and said R149‚000 was paid to the SABC for this interview – which focused on Dlamini’s friends and family. Oliphant feels the media won’t give the department of social development’s side of the story. “We are in a very hostile environment.” “No matter how many times‚ Bongani‚ we say she doesn’t drink . . . people say she drinks. “We had a clean audit for five years‚ nobody is interested in (crediting) Bathabile Dlamini (for) clean audits.” Bingwa told her: “This was a puff piece about what a wonderful person she is.” Oliphant continued to defend the payment. Oliphant said in a statement the R5-million was well-spent at the SABC. “To date‚ through Government Communication and Information Systems‚ the department has transferred more than R5-million to the SABC for this purpose and we will not be apologetic for investing in the SABC. The SABC gives us space across all its platforms on radio‚ TV and online media. They give us a schedule to agree and be available for.” The Democratic Alliance commented: “If these allegations are true‚ the minister must personally pay back the money”. Lumka Oliphant said her expletive-laden rant in defence of Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini was “unfortunate” and “regrettable”‚ but said she couldn’t leave claims that “she had addressed South Africa drunk” unchallenged. She told Radio 702 on Monday morning that the “malicious” rumours about Dlamini’s alleged drinking habits had been… January 16, 2017 Ducking questions around her handling of the Sassa payment crisis‚ which affects 17 million grant beneficiaries‚ Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini yesterday chose to climb into journalists who she believes represent a “monopoly capital agenda”. Dlamini was speaking at the Cape Sun Hotel in Cape Town‚ where a jovial crowd… March 7, 2017 Today is D-Day for Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini to give reasons to the Constitutional Court why she should not be held personally accountable for the grants debacle, and foot the legal bill for the crisis which landed her department before the court. Dlamini has already stated that she takes… March 31, 2017