About 100 people have been injured after a Shosholoza Meyl train – travelling from Port Elizabeth – derailed between Hennenman and Kroonstad in the Free State on Thursday morning‚ according to emergency services. ER24’s Russel Meiring told TimesLIVE the number of injured was changing constantly. The train was travelling from Port Elizabeth to Johannesburg‚ carrying many holidaymakers on their way home. Meiring said the train‚ a truck and a car were involved in the incident. Shozoloza Meyl spokeswoman, Daisy Daniel, said she did not have precise information at the moment as she had just arrived on the scene. She confirmed the train had departed from Port Elizabeth on Wednesday afternoon. A video posted on Twitter showed several train cars on fire.  Maroela Media reported that Tiaan Esterhuizen‚ a passenger on the train‚ said the incident had occurred around 9.15am. “We were in the restaurant section of the train eating breakfast when we felt a jerk and soon after the train came to a standstill‚” he is quoted as saying. “Some of the people told me afterward they heard the train blowing its horn for a long time before the accident happened.” He said that many paramedics‚ firefighters and ambulances were on the scene. “We took the train because we thought it would be safer than being on the roads.” Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) executive Mthura Swarts could not confirm details of the incident‚ but confirmed it was a Shosholoza Meyl train that was involved. -TimesLIVE The Railway Safety Regulator said on Wednesday that 63 people were injured in the derailment of a PRASA Shosholoza Meyl long distance train‚ travelling from Johannesburg to Cape Town. The train derailed between Modderrivier and Heuningneskloof stations in the Northern Cape on Tuesday night. “Sixty passengers‚ the train driver‚ his… August 19, 2015 [tribulant_slideshow gallery_id="44"] Traumatised passengers tell of horror as trains collided, killing two A LOUD bang and what felt like a huge tremor was what passengers recalled after two trains crashed headon outside King William’s Town yesterday. A thick pall of smoke filled the sky after the horror accident, which left… May 20, 2015 A PASSENGER train carrying more than 200 people derailed just before pulling into the Port Elizabeth Station yesterday. The Shosholoza Meyl, which had travelled from Bloemfontein with 222 people on board, shifted off the rails when a piece of the track came apart. Although no one was seriously injured, three… June 27, 2014