Those close to Mandoza will commemorate what would have been his 40th birthday on January 17 by releasing some of his music that has not been heard before. The song‚ titled Back For More, will be made available on music streaming plat- forms for download. Mandoza’s widow‚ Mpho Tshabalala, said his unreleased songs would reintroduce him to fans. “His body is gone, but his soul is coming back for more in the music industry,” she said. “We are also releasing exclusive T-shirts‚ having partnered with a clothing brand. “As time goes on we will be releasing a full clothing line, but for now we are starting with the T-shirts for his birthday.” Tshabalala said she would spend Mandoza’s birthday at home with their children, which was a tradition he had started. “He loved spending his birthday with his kids. What matters is that we will be together. But this time it’s more of a celebration. We’ve completed the grieving period. “We will never forget him, but now we will focus on how God gave us such a great man.” Tshabalala also revealed that they were in talks with some of South Africa’s prominent DJs to remix some of Mandoza’s greatest hits. Mandoza died in 2016 of cancer. It's been one year since kwaito musician Mduduzi Edmund Tshabalala‚ popularly known as Mandoza‚ died after a brief battle with brain cancer and while those close to him are still battling to come to terms with the loss they are determined to make sure his memory lives on. On September… September 18, 2017 EMBATTLED SABC board chairwoman Ellen Tshabalala has again failed to produce evidence to rebut allegations that she lied to parliament about her academic qualifications. Instead, she forced the postponement of the legislature's inquiry into the matter. Tshabalala has also come out guns blazing against the National Assembly's communications committee that… October 15, 2014 Pericles Anetos SINGER-SONGWRITER Garth Taylor will be releasing his new single, Try, in Port Elizabeth this coming Friday when he takes the stage at the Boardwalk Vodacom Amphitheatre. Try was co-produced by Just Jinjer bass player Denholm Harding. "We went into the song together and it has made quite a… October 20, 2013