Zondo makes cut for first three ODIs Farhaan Behardien’s legion of detractors finally got their way yesterday when he was dropped from the squad to play India in the first three of six One Day Internationals next month. But the selectors picked a strange time to do what too many people have said for too long‚ sometimes unfairly‚ they should do. Behardien is fourth in the batting averages and sixth among runscorers in this season’s franchise one-day competition‚ and he comes with the experience of 58 ODIs. Stranger still‚ uncapped Khaya Zondo – who has scored 101 fewer runs than Behardien in the same event‚ averages 8.17 less‚ and has a strike rate 27.76 lower – has cracked the nod. Selection convener Linda Zondi came prepared for the obvious question at the Wanderers yesterday. “It’s very important for us to be clear in terms of our current plans‚” Zondi said. “We are starting our vision 2019; the players we are looking for and the roles that are important. “There are key players who have done well at franchise level. The player we are discussing now [Zondo] has done well for his franchise for four years.” Since 2014-15, Zondo has played 54 list A games in which he has scored 1 886 runs at an average of 47.15 with a century and eight half-centuries. But because Behardien was not in the mix now does not mean that he would not be in the second half of the series. “We will be giving opportunities and increasing the pool‚” Zondi said. “By the time it comes to 2019 we will have eliminated players who‚ in our minds‚ are part and parcel of our discussion. “So this is a holistic approach in terms of giving opportunity. “This squad is only for the first three matches. We know more or less what’s our starting XI‚ so it’s important that the guys who are in the squad and won’t be playing get an opportunity to understand our culture and be around the guys. “After the third match we will sit and – regardless of whether the series is won or lost – we will give opportunity. “We are not saying we’ve dropped Behardien and he’s not going to be part of the series. “We will decide after the third match which guys we’re going to rest and which guys we’re going to rotate. This is going to happen for the whole year.” Had Behardien been apprised of the selectors’ thinking? “Absolutely. He knows that after the third game we’re going to sit as selectors and decide.” Zondo was in South Africa’s squad in India in 2015‚ and was not selected for the XI even though JP Duminy was injured. Instead‚ Dean Elgar was flown in from home. That stoked ire‚ particularly among black cricket followers – and it adds to the pressure to blood Zondo this time. Lungi Ngidi is the other uncapped player in the squad‚ while Morne Morkel and Chris Morris return from injury. Left-arm wrist spinner Tabraiz Shamsi is also back. Faf du Plessis (captain)‚ Hashim Amla‚ Quinton de Kock‚ AB de Villiers‚ JP Duminy‚ Imran Tahir‚ Aiden Markram‚ David Miller‚ Morne Morkel‚ Chris Morris‚ Lungi Ngidi‚ Andile Phehlukwayo‚ Kagiso Rabada‚ Tabraiz Shamsi‚ Khaya Zondo. – TimesLIVE Proteas skipper backs his boys as ODI series starts Back at full strength, the Proteas will be looking to launch a telling counterattack when they square up against a confident Sri Lankan side in the opening one-day international at St George’s Park today (10am start). The tourists arrived in Port… January 28, 2017 Today’s third T20 between South Africa and Sri Lanka at Newlands is the series decider and Cape Town’s first chance to see some of the most exciting young talent in the country in green and gold. But it is also more important than any of that – it is AB… January 25, 2017 Tomorrow's Pink Day ODI against Sri Lanka being sold out indicates the day's popularity. Except for last year's low-scoring nail-biter in which South Africa escaped by one wicket against England, the game has been full of runs and money charities. Between 2013 and tomorrow's third ODI, R2.25-million has been raised… February 3, 2017