Two Weekend Post readers stand a chance to win double tickets to Bay entertainer Rochey “Stone” Walters’s comedy and music show Laugh and be Healed at Jeffreys Bay’s Je Vista Social Cafe next month. While the title “businessman” may be associated with suits and boardrooms, businessman Walters is mixing it up by incorporating his boardroom skills with humour and music. Proving that it can all be done by one person, Khoi Kulcha founder and Nama Events chief executive Walters will give Jeffreys Bay a taste of his funny side with his first solo comedy and music show, Laugh, next month. “We all go through tough times and the only medicine that is free and [has] no side effects is laughter, so come and laugh with us and be healed,” he said. At the show, Walters will be sharing his life story and experiences through comedy and music with a live band. Walters’s Khoi Kulcha is a brand that celebrates and embraces the indigenous Khoi San people to keep this legacy and the heritage alive. The brand has various products such as urban and cultural apparel, coffee and organic tea, while Nama Events specialises in public relations and marketing, events management, brand activation and more. When the suits come off, Walters is known as “Stone”, an MC, motivational speaker, radio personality and musician.
“Being an entrepreneur comes with creativity, so I’ve always taught myself that when an opportunity comes. I must take it up and if it’s something I can’t do, I learn to do it. “So I’m pushing myself to the limits and doing all these things at once because one day I want to relax and enjoy the fruits of my labour,” he said. Thanks to his 14 years of experience in marketing, Laugh and be Healed was sold out in one day but Walters promises a bigger and better show in April when he celebrates his and Khoi Kulcha’s birthday. The show will start at 7.30pm on Friday February 2 at Je Vista Social Cafe in Jeffreys Bay, with stand-up comedian Niven Spence as the opening act. A Humansdorp boy has become an internet sensation, with his rendition of Meghan Trainor’s Like I’m Gonna Lose You reaching nearly 50 000 views on Facebook yesterday. Diego Lottering, 12, uploaded the video on Tuesday, hoping to raise some money for an upcoming school tour. He got his wish –… March 13, 2017 Idols SA runner-up Thami Shobede will be belting out love songs at the Boardwalk amphitheatre next month at a concert presented by Khoi Culture. Shobede won the hearts of many fans of Idols SA with his smooth vocals. With his concert on April 8 to signal his first visit to… March 24, 2017 Hello darlings, it is me again – you’re favourite Skinnerbek, here to bring you all the juiciest bits from the Bay social scene. Last Friday I went to check out Bloemendal artist Lora Joplin at Cafe Capellini in Newton Park. Joplin was launching her single called Forbidden Fruit and I… May 26, 2017