An Indian court has freed for two weeks a convicted murderer serving a life jail term so that he can try to become a father, his lawyer said yesterday. Siddique Ali, 40, was freed by the Madras High Court following a plea by his 32-year-old wife so the couple can undergo fertility treatment. The court order, made last week but only revealed yesterday, is a rare judgment in India recognising prisoners’ conjugal rights. The judges said Ali was released under extraordinary circumstances for the “purpose of procreation”. They rejected a prosecution contention that the law does not provide for a prisoner to be freed to start a family. The court order said the wife was “a suffering person and her legitimate expectation to have a child cannot be declined”. “Being human beings, prisoners also would like to share their problems with their life partner as well as the society. Just because they are termed as prisoner, their right to dignity can’t be deprived,” the 11-page judgment said. The justices ordered Ali to return to prison on February 3 but said they would consider additional leave if required. Ali was convicted two years ago. Details of the murder were not available. The couple’s lawyer said Ali and his wife were consulting fertility specialists. “The doctors are conducting tests and we are hopeful their wish is fulfilled,” the lawyer, who did not want to be named, said . – AFP CHAINED to a bed for eight years, allegedly by his parents, a nine- year-old Johannesburg boy has never known freedom. As the youngster yesterday received counselling from social workers, his father appeared in the Alexandra Magistrate's Court on charges of child neglect. The boy, along with his two brothers and… June 3, 2014 AS South Africans living abroad head to the polls today, prisoners in the country claim they are being deprived of their right to vote because they do not have identity documents. Yesterday the Corrections and Civil Rights Movement, together with the South African Prisoners Organisation for Human Rights and leader… April 30, 2014 Chris Hani's daughter Lindiwe wants to meet her father's killer, Janusz Walus, in prison next week. The Sunday Times can exclusively reveal today that she has requested a meeting with Walus for "a victim-offender dialogue". The surprise twist comes after the Hani family's steadfast refusal to accept Walus's apology or… March 14, 2016