A dramatic rescue operation unfolded overnight to reach three climbers involved in an accident – two of whom were later declared dead – below the upper cable car station on Table Mountain. Hundreds of tourists waited on top of the mountain for hours as rescuers used the cable car to reach the trio who were reportedly climbing Arrow Final. “There are two climbers dangling from ropes below the upper cable station at least 150 meters down. A third person‚ also on a controlled rope‚ is administering CPR to one of the persons‚” said Wilderness Search and Rescue spokesman Johan Marais on Monday evening. “In order to gain access to the injured climbers‚ rescuers are making use of the cable cars from which a rope system has been rigged to lower medical and rescue personnel.” Two of the climbers‚ both men‚ were subsequently declared dead. Their bodies were secured to the side of the mountain for the duration of the night. An injured woman was brought to safety in the cable car. There were approximately 800 people still on the mountain after 10pm who were then brought down in the cable car. The rescue team resumed the operation at first light on Tuesday and the bodies were taken off the mountain by 5am. Three climbers died on Everest over the weekend and another is missing, officials confirmed Monday, in one of the deadliest episodes on the peak since an avalanche swept through base camp and killed 18 two years ago. More than a dozen climbers have been rescued from the 8 848m mountain… May 22, 2017 A tour operator guiding two Dutch tourists involved in a rescue at the Knysna National Parks forest on Monday did not have a permit for kloofing, SA National Parks (SANParks) said on Tuesday (11/11/2014). "They had the right permit for access to the Drupkelders hiking trail but we never issue… November 11, 2014 A body was discovered on the Platteklip Gorge hiking route on Table Mountain in Cape Town on Sunday. Wilderness Search and Rescue spokesman Johan Marais said that there were reports of a person missing on the mountain late on Saturday night. “Our members assisted SANParks rangers to look for such… February 19, 2017