Restaurant  that use municipal pavements as part of their business offering will in future have to apply for permission to use those areas, lease them from the municipality and abide by a number of new regulations. This is according to the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’s land planning department, which yesterday launched a public participation programme to engage residents on a raft of new policies and bylaws, which include the outdoor dining policy. This emerged at a meeting held in the Malabar Community Hall, where the trendy Stanley Street restaurant strip in Richmond Hill was used as an example of where the outdoor dining policy would be implemented. According to the municipality, bylaws that have been adopted in principle are the draft problem building bylaw and the spatial planning and land use management bylaw. New policies that have been adopted in principle are the outdoor dining policy, liquor outlet policy, student accommodation policy, guest house policy and tall building policy. In addition, the municipality has already adopted an immovable asset policy. Commenting on the tall building policy, Nontu Dlamini, of the municipality’s land planning department, said that in the main, the new policy would see a relaxation of existing height restrictions. “It came about as a result of concerns from developers and others that restrictions on buildings were inhibiting development,” Dlamini said. “The new policy will involve regulations which will govern the heights of buildings in a calculation determined by the average height of the buildings in a specific area and the tallest building in that area.” Speaking at the same meeting, Mthulisi Msimanga, the director of land use in the department, said the outdoor dining policy was already being addressed. Some restaurants in Stanley Street had already been served notices for their use of the pavements for their patrons, Msimanga said. Dlamini said the outdoor dining policy would apply to property owners, and specifically restaurateurs, who operated on the pavements. These businesses were viewed differently to hawkers who sold food on pavements, who would be regulated under hawking and vending bylaws. The new policies and bylaws can be viewed during normal working hours on the third floor of the Lillian Diedericks building in Govan Mbeki Avenue. Alternately, they can be viewed at all municipal libraries, clinics, municipal serve paypoints and ward councillor offices throughout the metro. Small traders on busy routes say council order to get permits or go threatens their livelihoods Illegal hawkers trading in Nelson Mandela Bay suburbs could have to close their small businesses after the municipality vowed to remove them from the streets. Givemore Shemo, 38, of Motherwell, is one of more… September 19, 2017 In a bid to combat the mushrooming of illegal shacks around Nelson Mandela Bay, the municipality is in the process of developing a bylaw to regulate the establishment of informal settlements. The proposed Informal Settlement Management bylaw will deal with illegal invasions, abandoned shacks, illegal church structures and partially built… March 23, 2017 The Knysna Municipality will be deliberating tomorrow on a new bylaw that will place strict regulations on owners of pitbulls and other dog breeds considered dangerous. The measures have been proposed after a series of brutal attacks in and around the coastal holiday town in the past month, including an… February 9, 2015