Two people were wounded in separate suspected gang-related shootings at the weekend. One incident occurred yesterday in Terblanche Street, Gelvandale, at 5am, police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said. “Two men were walking towards the corner of Terblanche and Baird streets when a man started shooting at them. They fled into a nearby yard to escape. “A 29-year-old was shot in the leg while a 41-year-old did not sustain any injuries. “They have no gang affiliation,” she said. The incident follows a shooting on Saturday, when a 25-year-old man was wounded in the leg in Leith Street, Helenvale, at 5pm. “As he approached the corner of Leith and Bongo streets, a man walked towards him and started shooting at him,” Naidu said. While both the incidents were thought to be gang-related, the exact motive was unknown. In another occurrence in Port Elizabeth on Saturday, a 19-year-old suspected gangster was arrested while running with a firearm at about 4.20pm. “Police on patrol spotted the man running in a side street in the Ferreira’s Ground vicinity of Bethelsdorp,” she said. “A chase ensued and the man was arrested with a pistol in the KwaDwesi area.” Gareth Wilson A teenager was shot dead and two people were wounded in a suspected gang shooting at the Gelvandale SPAR yesterday morning. Police have linked the incident to the double murder in a Helenvale street on Saturday, when two men were shot – allegedly by members of the New Kids gang.… September 25, 2017 Two people were killed in gang shootings yesterday, bringing the gang death toll over 24 hours to four. In the past two weeks, eight people have been killed and 10 wounded in gang-related violence in Port Elizabeth’s northern areas. Gurshin Samuels, 25, was gunned down at 1pm yesterday in Old… July 14, 2016 FOUR people were wounded in the latest spate of gang-related shootings in Port Elizabeth's northern areas. Two suspected gangsters have since been arrested and gang task team members are attempting to locate others who were involved. The first shooting took place on Friday at midday in Kobus Road, Helenvale, when… December 8, 2014