The desire of Indian parents for sons has created an estimated 21 million unwanted girls because couples keep having children until they produce a boy, the government said yesterday. Indian parents have historically wanted sons, who are seen as breadwinners and family heirs. Girls are often viewed as a financial burden in a country where the tradition of giving a dowry persists. Even though sex selection is against the law, illegal gender-based abortions have been blamed for a sex ratio of 940 females for every 1 000 males in the last census. But many couples continued having children until they produced their desired number of sons, the government said in its annual economic survey. “Families where a son is born are more likely to stop having children than families where a girl is born. This is suggestive of parents having children till a son is born and stopping after that,” it said. Women in India face immense pressure to produce male children and many rural families do not send girls to school, marrying them off young. Even wealthier families are not immune to the preference for sons. Illegal sex selection and gender-based abortions remain rampant in the country, according to studies. A 2011 study in the British medical journal The Lancet found that up to 12 million girls had been aborted in the last three decades in India. – AFP TWO thousand girls are killed every day due to a preference for sons in India with most aborted or murdered just after birth, the country’s minister for women and child development said. Despite laws that ban parents having tests to determine the gender of unborn children, sex selective abortions remain… April 22, 2015 Racial and cultural taboos persist, write Melitta Ngalonkulu and Siyamtanda Capa ADOPTION as an option for couples or singles who want to raise children but cannot conceive for whatever reason is riddled with historic racial and cultural challenges in South Africa. While there are many black babies eligible for adoption,… November 16, 2015 India’s Kailash Satyarthi dedicated the Nobel Peace Prize that he shared on Friday (10/10/2014) to children in slavery, pledging to “join hands” with fellow laureate Malala Yousafzai of Pakistan as their two countries fought over the territory of Kashmir. The 60-year-old children’s rights campaigner was recognised for his battle against… October 10, 2014