Three people were killed and 14 injured in separate car accidents in the Eastern Cape amid the increased traffic on the roads during the ANC’s 106th birthday celebrations in East London over the weekend. In one of the incidents, two people were killed and 13 were taken to hospital on Saturday morning, when a minibus taxi believed to have been ferrying ANC supporters collided head-on with a Chevrolet Spark at about 9.45am. Eastern Cape traffic deputy director Charles Bramwell said the Toyota Quantum minibus was travelling from Port Elizabeth to King William’s Town while the Spark was on its way to Grahamstown. Bramwell said the woman driver of the Spark and a man in the car were killed instantly, while the minibus driver was treated at the scene for minor injuries. Bramwell said a case of culpable homicide was being investigated by Grahamstown police. Earlier, a car collided head-on with a 30-ton truck on the R72 near Kidd’s Beach at about 6.30am. The driver of the Hyundai was fatally injured and the truck driver is in a critical condition. Bramwell said the Hyundai was allegedly overtaking when it crashed into the front right of the truck. At least 10 people were killed when a minibus taxi collided head on with a truck on the R63 between Komga and Bhisho on Sunday afternoon (05/03/17). The driver of the taxi and that of the truck are among those who died at the scene. Eastern Cape health spokesman Sizwe… March 5, 2017 Cow on road causes horror crash on rural road in province NINE people were killed when a furniture truck and a minibus collided on an Eastern Cape road at the weekend. In another accident yesterday afternoon, seven people were seriously injured when a bus overturned elsewhere. The fatal accident occurred… December 7, 2015 Five people were killed and six seriously injured in accidents on Eastern Cape roads this weekend. Provincial Traffic Department deputy director Charles Bramwell said alcohol was suspected to have played a part in one of the accidents, as several empty alcohol bottles had allegedly been found scattered inside one of… July 11, 2016