Police confiscated a Hawks member’s firearm after he allegedly fired several shots during a Uitenhage funeral at the weekend. According to police, the allegedly drunk constable was found at the memorial service in Mankayi Street in KwaNobuhle after the funeral. Police have declined to release his name until he is formally charged in court. Police spokesman Sergeant Majola Nkohli said the 35year-old man was at a funeral at the Matanzima cemetery in KwaNobuhle at about 1pm. According to police officials, the funeral was that of a known gangster operating in the Uitenhage area. “Police received a complaint of people discharging firearms at the cemetery during a funeral service. At the scene, a person who claimed to be a witness gave a description of a person that he alleged to have seen discharging a firearm,” Nkohli said. “Police followed up the information and that led them to a person of interest at Mankayi Street, KwaNobuhle. “The person of interest was found to be a member that is attached to the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation. “The member was in possession of his official firearm. Police confiscated his official firearm and opened a case of discharging a firearm in the municipal area.” Asked why the constable had not been arrested, Nkohli said the investigation was still under way and firearm residue and blood tests had been taken. “Given the fact that there is not sufficient evidence at this stage, the member was not arrested.” Nkohli said the matter would be referred to the Independent Police Investigative Directorate for investigation. A Toyota Corolla was hijacked at the Sinxo Crescent and Siwasa Street intersection in KwaNobuhle, Uitenhage, on Wednesday night. Police spokesman Sergeant Majola Nkohli said the incident happened at about 8:30pm when a 36-year-old woman was dropping three relatives at their home. “The car was stationary in the street with… July 14, 2016 ONE of Port Elizabeth's most-wanted hijackers was arrested during a car chase through Kwanobuhle in Uitenhage at about 1pm on Tuesday afternoon. According to police‚ the 25-year-old man‚ who was wanted for three hijackings and an armed robbery‚ is believed to be part of the notorious gang responsible for hijacking… September 16, 2015 Three foreign nationals were killed in two separate incidents over the weekend. Despatch police are investigating a case of double murder after an Ethiopian man and a Malawian man were shot and killed in Khayamnandi last night. The men’s bodies were discovered inside New Bhongo's Spaza Shop in Fort Calata… July 17, 2016