The Standard Bank Ironman 70.3 Buffalo City is set to be the launching pad to a big year for East London’s top triathlete Clinton Gravett, who is gunning for a strong performance tomorrow. Gravett, who has not raced since the last Ironman 70.3 in the city, where he finished a solid 10th, will be looking to impress in a strong field. “This is the start of a big year for me,” Gravett said. “This is the first step on a long journey. I would like to qualify for the Ironman 70.3 World Champs in PE, so that is the year goal. I am as ready as I can be for now.” As it is his first race in a year, Gravett will need to hit the ground running and he will be aiming to use his strengths to give him a boost in the race, especially if he is to better last year’s result and set a new personal best time. “With it being the first race of the season there will always be a few cobwebs, so it is going to be a bit of a shock to the system, but luckily my swim and my bike are quite strong so I should be okay,” Gravett said. “You never want to go back on yourself, so I want to finish in the top 10 and better my best time.” The top seed for the race will be Evert Scheltinga from the Netherlands, followed by 2015 and 2016 champ Matt Trautman and then two German athletes, Johann Ackermann and Florian Bogge. The other top South Africans in the mix include Gerhard de Bruin, Rudolf Naude and Bradley Weiss, while other athletes come from around the world including Brazil, the US, France, Italy and Belguim. “It is going to be tough, there are some quality guys racing and also a few foreign guys who we don’t know much about,” Gravett warned. “Matt Trautman is always one to look out for. He is a phenomenal biker. Quite a few guys have pulled out, which has also made it a little more interesting, while there has been a lot of hype about the highly rated Bradley Weiss, so it is all up for grabs.” On the women’s front, the challenge will be led by Britain’s Susie Cheetham, who has finished on the podium a number of times in this race, without being on the top step. She put in a massive effort in last year’s race and was in the end just beaten by seven-time champ Jodie Cunnama (nee Swallow), who is out, having given birth in November. Cheetham will want to take the top spot this time round. “I would love to be on that top step. “I have been here quite a few times. I have had some really challenging races here. I have had a crash, I’ve had food poisoning, but I always come back. “I think last year was the strongest race I have had here and since them I have made improvements on my bike. I am quite excited to see the impact of some of those improvements on race day and see if I can show them on the course,” Cheetham said. It is an extremely strong women’s field, which should lead to an exciting race. “You’ve got Emma Pallant, who came second at the 70.3 World Champs. She was only beaten by Daniela Ryf ,who is arguably the best in the world and for Emma to come second I would say she is really one to beat,” Cheetham said. In all 2 402 athletes from 32 countries will be lining up on the Orient Beach tomorrow morning. The action will get under way at 6.45am with the professionals setting off first, before the age-group athletes begin their races with a rolling start. Neale Emslie KYLE Buckingham is relishing his new status and keenly anticipating his first outing as a professional when the Ironman 70.3 South Africa takes place in East London next Sunday. The talented 30-year-old triathlete joins the professional ranks after peaking as an amateur when he was crowned world champion… January 17, 2014 Nelson Mandela Bay triathlete Siyabulela “Jabu” Mpengesi could become the first black African to compete in the Ironman 70.3 world championships in Port Elizabeth next year. However, engineer Mpengesi, 35, knows the road to qualification will not be easy and he will have to put in the work if he… December 23, 2017 Neale Emslie FORMER Victoria Park High pupil Kyle Buckingham achieved a long-cherished dream when he was crowned the amateur champion in the Ironman world championships in Kona, Hawaii, on Saturday. Buckingham, 29, who qualified for the 30-34 age- group, not only won his division, he was the first amateur home… October 14, 2013