Collegiate pupil Isabella Archibald has become the first fencer from the Eastern Cape to earn South African colours. Although teammates Jon-Paul Raper, Gareth Vorster and Rhys Poovan have all fenced internationally in the modern pentathlon, Archibald is the only one to receive national recognition purely for fencing. Before leaving for Nigeria to compete in the Africa Junior Fencing Championships from February 27 to March 4, she will compete in the SA Championships on Sunday in Cape Town. Archibald was invited to compete in the modern pentathlon youth Olympic trials and Africa Championships last year in the tetrathlon (fencing, swimming, running and laser shooting). Unfortunately, she had to withdraw because of an injury. Nelson Mandela Bay coach Jessica Raper said: “Now she is getting a second chance to represent South Africa. We are so happy for her.” The Eastern Cape team for the SA Junior fencing championships this weekend in Cape Town is: U11: Keira van Heerden (Collegiate), Jayson Archibald (Grey) U13: Lebu Sondevu (Dambuza), Mathew Milan (Stirling) U15-U17: Bella Archibald (Collegiate), Rachel Beukes (Pearson), Paola Signorile (Clarendon), Angelo Barkhuysen (Pearson), Anoxolo Salaze (Kuyafa), Keegan van Heerden (Theodor Herzl) Juniors: Kayleigh Hiscock (Clarendon), Isabella Finestone (Pearson), Gareth Vorster (NMU) Pearson High’s Isabella Archibald may be only 14 years old but she managed to beat all comers in the recent Interdistrict fencing competition at St George’s College. Her opponents included experienced senior fencer Michaela Penkler and fellow Pearson pupil Isabella Finestone, a talented junior fencer. Both Archibald and Finestone, both… September 25, 2017 Port Elizabeth’s Jon-Paul Raper, Gareth Vorster and international student Oihan Caillaud will be flying the Eastern Province fencing flag high when they compete at the Gauteng Open Championships in Johannesburg at the weekend. The best in the country will compete for national rankings – and the Bay trio will pull… November 30, 2017 Excelsior Fencing Eastern Cape, hosts of the Eastern Cape Open National Ranking Competitions, have held an awards ceremony to honour their fencing stars. Former Protea fencer and modern pentathlon star Jon-Paul Raper won this year’s Best Senior Fencer award in the Eastern Cape at the function in Seaview on Sunday night.… December 2, 2016