Gelvandale detectives are appealing for information following a spate of crimes, including two murders, at the weekend. In the first incident, a 40-year-old man died after a scuffle with a security official in Chase Street yesterday morning. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the man approached the security official while he was on his way to work at about 6.15am. “The suspect pulled out a gun, threatened the man and assaulted him with the firearm,” Naidu said. She said there was a physical tussle between the two. The security official overpowered the other man, who fell to the ground and died. The dead man had red hair and a number of tattoos on an arm and other parts of his body. It was later established that the “firearm” was, in fact, a gas pistol. An hour later the body of Ashton Saterdag was discovered in a lane in Bramlin Markman. Naidu said Saterdag had been repeatedly bashed over the head with a large stone which was found near the crime scene. She appealed to residents with any information related to the Bramlin Markman murder and the man who died in the attempted robbery to contact Warrant Officer Neil Hendricks on (041) 401-7003. Two stolen firearms were recovered and two suspected gangsters arrested in separate incidents yesterday (16/10/17). Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the first arrest was that of a 19-year-old man who was found carrying a 9mm firearm. “The arrest comes after Bethelsdorp police received a tip-off of someone walking in… October 17, 2017 Police also stoned by residents as they try to stem gang-war A second suspected gangster believed to have been involved in the murder of 12-year-old Aliya “Angel” Tee last month has been arrested. The arrest comes in the wake of a spate of gang-related shootings in the northern areas over… July 11, 2016 Rampant gang-related crime has forced the South African Post Office to shut up shop in Gelvandale. This follows a spate of burglaries, muggings and other crimes against Post Office staff and customers. Residents now have to travel to the Saltville post office in Bethelsdorp. One worried mother said residents were… November 13, 2017