The Reserve Bank kept interest rates unchanged on Thursday‚ when the monetary policy committee (MPC) wrapped up its first meeting of 2018. With a number of risk events on the horizon‚ the decision was expected by the majority of analysts‚ and leaves the repo rate at 6.75%‚ where it has been since the July 2017 cut of 25 basis points — the first cut in five years. Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago said that since the previous meeting of the MPC‚ the rand had appreciated by 13.1% against the dollar‚ by 9.6% against the euro‚ and by 10.6% to the pound on a trade-weighted basis. He did warn‚ however‚ that “in the near term‚ the rand is expected to remain sensitive to sentiment generated by political developments. The lingering prospect of a credit-ratings downgrade to sub-investment grade by Moody’s [also] continues to weigh on the longer-term outlook for the rand.” Within a few minutes of the decision being announced‚ the rand strengthened to R12.19 to the dollar‚ from R12.25 prior to the governor’s speech. A Bloomberg consensus of 19 economists and analysts showed that 13 expected rates to be unchanged‚ while five forecast a cut of 25 basis points‚ with one predicting a 50-basis-point drop. Prior to the MPC meeting‚ Standard Bank trader Warrick Butler said there was no way the Reserve Bank was going to cut rates a month before a crucial sovereign-rating announcement by Moody’s‚ “especially in light of the budget speech the day before and the cost implications of the new‚ free-education policy announced in December”. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba is set to deliver the annual budget speech in Parliament on February 21. In his medium-term budget policy statement in October last year‚ Gigaba highlighted a R50bn budget deficit‚ without detailing any plans to resolve the issue. South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) governor Lesetja Kganyago on Thursday announced a 50 basis-point increase in the repo rate to 6.75%, in line with the consensus for a 50 basis-point hike. This means the prime lending rate will now be 10.25%. Lending rates have risen by a cumulative 175 basis… January 28, 2016 SOUTH Africa's interest rates will remain steady following this week's three-day meeting of the Reserve Bank's monetary policy committee (MPC). The MPC kept the key repurchase rate at 5.5%‚ Bank governor Gill Marcus said yesterday‚ and the prime lending rate therefore remains at 9%. But Marcus warned there would be… March 28, 2014 In the second interest rate hike for the year, the South African Reserve Bank’s (Sarb) Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) hiked the repo rate to 6.25%, governor Lesetja Kganyago announced on Thursday. It was the last MPC meeting for the year and follows a 25 basis point increase in July. The… November 19, 2015