The mammoth task of refurbishing and renovating Port Elizabeth’s main library in the heart of the city has gained momentum, with work to the building’s structure under way and an estimated completion date of mid-2021 announced by the municipality. With just on R15-million already spent on the colossal task undertaken by the municipality, further work on the historic building will depend on the future budgets of the municipality’s directorate of sports, recreation, arts and culture. After severe flooding in 2006 and 2012, the library – first opened in 1902 – had suffered considerable damage, creating an environment hazardous to the public and library workers, municipal spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki said. “Accordingly the Main Library building was closed to the public in September 2014, and library personnel were relocated to alternative library facilities,” he said. Local architecture firm The Matrix Urban Designers and Architects were appointed by the municipality to investigate and assess potential health hazards, and the planning, specification and contract administration of any remedial work required. In 2015, a report on the building containing recommendations for remedial work and estimated project costs of R37.3-million, was submitted to the municipality. “This estimated project cost exceeded the directorate’s [of sports, recreation, arts and culture] project budget of R18.1-million for the 2015/16 – 2017/18 financial years,” Mniki said. Subsequent reports presented by the sport, recreation, arts and cultural services committee to the municipality, saw the council resolve that additional funding be sourced to complete the project. The first phase, costing nearly R2-million and completed in October 2016, saw a section of the municipality’s Struanway depot converted into a warehouse to store cleaned and decontaminated books and historical artefacts. Part of that phase included converting two shipping containers into facilities to clean the books and transferring them to the depot, which cost over R1-million. Tenders for phase two of the project – which includes repair work, renovations and refurbishment of the heritage site – went out in January last year, with the official site hand-over taking place in November. The nearly R12-million contract was awarded to Ibhayi Contracting. Tender submissions for the second part of phase two – which includes internal renovation and refurbishment on all levels as well as extensive work on electrical installation, and on fire detection and suppression systems – would be advertised early next year, Mniki said. It was expected all building work would be completed by the end of March 2021. Maintenance and repair work to cost municipality R17.6m DESPITE the tender process for the refurbishment of the Port Elizabeth Main Library being on track, a definitive date for its reopening is still unknown. Situated in Govan Mbeki Avenue, the library has been closed since October 2014 due to water damage. The… January 25, 2016 ELEVEN months after the Port Elizabeth Main Library was closed to the public to undergo maintenance work it is still unclear when it will reopen. The municipality needs a further R7-million to be able to finish off the first phase of renovations and ensure the building is safe for staff… August 5, 2015 On A blistering summer’s day in the small Eastern Cape town of Kareedouw, about 50 pupils from three of the area’s main schools packed into the cramped municipal library. The building is set for completion during the second half of this year. Instead of the current library, which has makeshift… March 12, 2017