There was satisfaction and sheer joy for Herald Citizen of the Year Lukholo Badi as three of his young cycling proteges received sponsored racing bicycles. Imveli Cycling Club’s three leading riders grinned from ear to ear when they were presented with the bikes yesterday. Luthando Meintjies, 18, Simiselo Nelani, 17, and Archie Zaki, 16, said they could not wait to test the Bay’s hills on their new rides. Saying it was the break he had been waiting for, Luthando added: “I absolutely love the new bike. It’s so light. “I cannot wait for my first competition riding on this beautiful bike.” Imveli CC founder Badi was overjoyed by the generosity of bicycle shop Action Cycles, saying it was projects like this that ensured the continued growth of the sport. “These bicycles are of the same standard as other teams’. This donation will put our boys on the same level as others in terms of equipment,” he said. Using Luthando as an example, Badi said: “On his old bike, he sticks with the professional riders, so it is going to be interesting to see what he does on this new equipment.” All three riders will take part in The Herald Continental Cycle Tour next month. Action Cycles owner Garth Botha said he was inspired by the work being done by Badi for the members of Imveli, and he would continue to assist wherever he could.  Rural development, townships focus areas for sport’s new Eastern Cape boss, Badi Newly appointed Eastern Cape Cycling president Lukholo Badi is determined to take cycling in the province to greater heights. Besides wanting to fast-track township and rural development, he also wants to ensure that cycling becomes part of the… February 4, 2017 Since last week I have had quite a few friends, colleagues and the odd inbox trying to figure out this triathlon thing, and Ironman in particular. You see, for many of us whose roots are in the hinterland, and having gone through township schooling, triathlon never crossed our radar. I… September 28, 2017 Stepping out of their own comfort zones to improve the lives of underprivileged children has earned two Nelson Mandela Bay good fellows honours as the Bay’s top citizens. St George’s Park resident Lukholo Badi, 36, walked away with the Herald Citizen of the Year award in the open category, while… October 30, 2017