South Africa coach Allister Coetzee said he had been effectively demoted from his post and accused the country’s rugby authorities of setting him up to fail in a letter leaked to several media outlets over the weekend. Coetzee said he had been told his contract was being terminated after two years in charge but offered a chance to stay on as a “ceremonial coach” with new director of rugby Rassie Erasmus effectively in charge. In a 19-page letter addressed to SA Rugby, Coetzee recounts his January 18 meeting with the union’s chief executive, Jurie Roux, which was supposed to be a review of his performance after 24 months in charge. “The meeting was used as a platform to inform me of Saru’s decision that it intends to terminate my contract of employment with immediate effect, regardless of the outcome of the anticipated performance review‚ as contemplated by my employment contract,” he wrote. “And‚ should I wish to remain in Saru’s employment‚ I will be reduced to a ceremonial coach‚ and further that Johan Erasmus [‘Rassie’] has already been employed to replace me and is already performing the duties of the Springbok coach. “Should I be reduced to the position of a ceremonial coach, I would have to face the indignity of reporting to Rassie.” SA Rugby confirmed the letter’s authenticity but refused any comment. Coetzee was appointed after the 2015 Rugby World Cup, where the Boks finished third, but has won 11 of 25 tests in a torrid spell for the team. “I was the most successful Super Rugby Coach at the time of my appointment and was requested to return to Springbok rugby from Japan because my country needed me,” he wrote. “My treatment since my return suggested that elements in Saru embarked on a deliberate attempt to undermine me from the word go and to create the public impression of incompetence on my part while wilfully obstructing my efforts to be successful. “I will fight to protect my hard-earned reputation which is in the process of being deliberately soiled publicly by elements within Saru.” – Reuters Springbok coach Allister Coetzee’s future employment could be counted in days after SA Rugby’s executive council met on Sunday and Monday to discuss it. Coetzee’s job wasn’t the only item on the scheduled agenda but it was the most pressing. The exact outcome of the gathering remains unclear at this… January 24, 2017 ALLISTER Coetzee took one step closer to becoming the Springbok coach when Heyneke Meyer opted not to renew his contract yesterday. Meyer’s contract ends on December 31 and he will no longer be the Springbok coach next year, paving the way for former Stormers coach Coetzee to take the job.… December 4, 2015 Allister Coetzee has been named as head coach of the Springboks for the next four years. The 52-year-old former Springbok assistant coach succeeds Heyneke Meyer. The appointment comes at a time when a number of veterans of the 2007 Rugby World Cup triumph have gone into retirement‚ including three of… April 12, 2016