Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini’s spokeswoman Lumka Oliphant has penned an open letter to Wits Professor Anton Harber and media outlets following criticism that Dlamini’s office forked out R149 000 for her to be interviewed on an SABC television programme. Dlamini was interviewed on Real Talk with Anele‚ a daily magazine show, and the two-part interview was broadcast in December. Harber wrote an opinion piece‚ saying Dlamini had destroyed the SABC’s journalistic credibility by paying for the interview. The SABC has admitted that it had not complied with its editorial policy when it took payment from the department because the public broadcaster did not charge for interviews. In a lengthy letter‚ posted on her Facebook page‚ Oliphant stressed that her department had done nothing wrong in paying for the interview. In it, she said, in part: “I am still trying to recover from your opinion piece published in the Daily Maverick that ‘Bathabile Dlamini has destroyed the credibility of the SABC’ . . . Last week‚ you all disowned me . . . “You disowned me with the exception of Ray Hartley, who came out and asked what the fuss was about because what I had done was done in the industry for as long as he could remember!” Addressing Harber‚ she wrote: “It is the beginning of the year and every year around this time‚ I get phone calls and meeting requests from members of the media . . . They want to be considered in my spending plan and they all compete for the budget. “They bring colourful proposals and negotiate for better pricing. It is very competitive. “Morally‚ I always feel that the SABC needs to get a better slice of the cake and I stand firm on that decision. They have the platforms‚ the reach and the languages.” Further, she wrote: “Social media has changed the way we consume information . . . It is tough for government communicators‚ it is tough for the media. “Those who communicate for government need to constantly find new strategies to make sure that their message is out. This includes directly talking to communities through imbizo‚ buying space and using social media.” She also said she was concerned about the SABC’s decision to refund and it was a bad precedent. Oliphant further said: “I get proposals from every media house . . . I am extremely disturbed by the hypocrisy . . . Airtime and space is not cheap. We need to be creative around funding for communication.” – TimesLIVE Department of Social Development spokesperson Lumka Oliphant has confirmed the department paid R5-million to the SABC for media exposure‚ including R149‚000 for the public broadcaster to interview the Social Development Minister. Oliphant made the disclosures to talkshow host Bongani Bingwa on 702 Talk Radio. Daily Maverick reported this week that… January 18, 2018 Lumka Oliphant said her expletive-laden rant in defence of Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini was “unfortunate” and “regrettable”‚ but said she couldn’t leave claims that “she had addressed South Africa drunk” unchallenged. She told Radio 702 on Monday morning that the “malicious” rumours about Dlamini’s alleged drinking habits had been… January 16, 2017 Minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini has defended her handling of the social grants programme. Dlamini made a long-awaited appearance before parliament’s Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa) on Tuesday. “Last week‚ I did not come here because I had other responsibilities‚” she said. “I think‚ the issue of grants‚… March 7, 2017