In the memories of the generation who watched it, the coronation was the stuff of fairytales – a bejewelled queen being invested with all the pomp and circumstance Britain could muster. Nearly 65 years after the young queen charmed the Commonwealth with the first televised coronation, she has disclosed the secret discomfort behind the glamorous facade, from a heavy crown with some “disadvantages” to a frankly “horrible” journey. The queen, who reflects on her own coronation and that of her father for a BBC television programme, has given an unprecedented insight into the reality of the day she was crowned at Westminster Abbey on June 2 1953. The programme is due to be broadcast by the BBC and in the US, with an American trailer released this weekend showing the Queen speaking candidly about the less than picture-perfect elements required to make the coronation ceremony and procession a success. Filmed watching scenes of her 27-yearold self travelling in the Gold State Coach, she appears to confess the experience had in part been “horrible”, suggesting that difficulties might have been down to a lack of suspension. “It’s only sprung on leather,” she said. “Not very comfortable.” Later in the trailer for The Coronation, as she discussed the crown jewels, she said smiling: “There are some disadvantages to the crowns, but otherwise, they’re quite important things.” Though the short clip does not specify what those disadvantages are, others have previously told of the extraordinary weight of crowns. St Edward’s Crown, which the queen has worn only once, for her coronation, weighs nearly 2.26kg. In one scene, showing the queen watching footage of the young Prince Charles and Princess Anne playing with her robe, presenter Alastair Bruce remarks: “Such fun for the children.” The Queen replies drily: “Not what they’re meant to do.” The programme is expected to share with viewers the queen’s memories of the day which, as she puts it, was the “beginning of one’s life really, as a sovereign”. Presented by Bruce, an expert on the coronation, and due to be screened on BBC One next Sunday, it will show her discussing the crown jewels from her unique perspective, identifying an apparent favourite gem in the Black Prince’s Ruby, which adorns the Imperial State Crown. A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: “In the programme, part of the royal collection season, the queen reflects on aspects of the coronation ceremony and the significance of the crown jewels.” A royal source said of the programme: “It’s a rare and often charming insight into Her Majesty’s personal recollections of the day.” – The Telegraph Queen Elizabeth II will stand down as patron of 25 bodies including the Wimbledon tennis championships and the Rugby Football Union, handing them to other royals after turning 90, her office said Tuesday. "At the end of The Queen's 90th birthday year, Her Majesty will step down as patron from… December 20, 2016 QUEEN Elizabeth has been caught on camera saying Chinese officials were “very rude” to the British ambassador during a state visit to Britain by President Xi Jinping last year. She made the comments at a garden party at Buckingham Palace on Tuesday, the same day that British Prime Minister David… May 12, 2016 BRITAIN celebrated the 90th birthday of Queen Elizabeth yesterday with tributes to a popular monarch who has steered it through the decline of empire and a wave of scandals to the internet age. The sovereign, who has been on the throne since 1953, emerged from Windsor Castle dressed in a… April 22, 2016