More than one million pupils started school in 2006 – but 12 years later, only a small percentage of those who made it to matric last year scored a distinction. Matriculants last year achieved 1 882 A symbols for maths literacy‚ 272 As for agricultural sciences‚ 5 040 As for accounting and 7 861 As for physical science. “The quality of the matric pass is still far too low for the sheer number of pupils writing exams‚” teachers’ union Naptosa’s executive secretary Basil Manuel said. On the fact that there were only a few thousand distinctions per subject‚ Manuel said: “There are far too few in the upper echelons of achievement.” The Department of Basic Education’s official examination report explains how many A symbols per subject matriculants received. The passes are a mark between 80% and 100% – a distinction. The 2017 matric class earned: ý 5 040 distinctions in accounting – or 4.9% of all those who wrote – a decrease from the year before; Manuel said these figures did not even show the full extent of the problem, because many matriculants had achieved distinctions in multiple subjects. In other words‚ only a small pool of pupils had scored top marks. In calculating, fewer than 1% of pupils who started Grade 1 would achieve distinctions in the gateway subjects of geography‚ mathematics‚ accounting and physical science 12 years later. Another number that garnered little publicity when matric results were announced was that 15% of matriculants dropped out between January last year and the final exams in November. – TimesLIVE Girls from Grahamstown’s DSG among top achievers in country Matriculants who receive their Independent Examination Board (IEB) results today managed to increase the overall matric pass rate for the third consecutive year, with three Eastern Cape pupils among the top 5% nationally. The IEB results continued on an upward trajectory… January 3, 2018 The National Senior Certificate (matric) results announcement was full of jargon and the Minister of Basic Education highlighted many positive aspects of the exams. But what does the jargon mean and are the results as good as Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga claimed on Thursday? Here is a rundown of… January 5, 2018 Despite improvement, province remains bottom of the class The Eastern Cape achieved an almost 10% improvement in its matric pass rate, but was still bottom of the class in 2017. The pass rate of 65% – a jump of 5.7 percentage points on the 59.3% in 2016 – was the… January 5, 2018