Filming starts next month on a movie on the life of pop legend Brenda Fassie – and the producers are still looking for a South African actress to play MaBrrr. London film and TV production company Showbizbee has the rights to the movie and will be working in conjunction with the Brenda Fassie Estate and Legaci Nova to produce Brenda: The Movie, the true story of the singer who died in 2004. Her son, Bongani, said: “My mother Brenda has been surrounded by controversy in her life and even after her death. “I am particularly eager to participate in the production as co-executive producer so that the real story of my mom comes alive to the people of South Africa and the world.” Affectionately called MaBrrr by her fans, she was sometimes described as the “Queen of African Pop” or simply The Black Madonna, and her bold stage antics earned a reputation for being outrageous. With very outspoken views and frequent visits to the poorer townships of Johannesburg, as well as songs about life in the townships, she enjoyed tremendous popularity. Known best for her songs Weekend Special and Too Late for Mama, she was dubbed “The Madonna of the Townships” by Time magazine in 2001. From 1996 she released several solo albums, including Now Is the Time, Memeza (1997), and Nomakanjani? Most of her albums became multiplatinum sellers in South Africa; Memeza was the best-selling album in South Africa in 1998. Written and directed by Edward W Shaw with a script based on a story by Bongani, Brenda will premiere in cinemas later this year. Shooting is due to start next month on location in Cape Town and Johannesburg. The period comedydrama follows the star from a young age, showing her determination to become a singer and following her journey from Cape Town’s Langa to Soweto, Johannesburg. A release by Showbizbee said Bongani had insight which “brings quality emotional and thoughtful material to the story of which we feel honoured to be part”. “With Brenda, writer-director Edward W Shaw is doing a remarkable job,” it said. “He has created a totally relatable story that is both fresh and new.” As part of its casting process, Showbizbee will be orchestrating the “search for Brenda”, open to all South Africans. Further information from office@showbizbee.com. Fans across the country are remembering the life and legacy of Brenda Fassie on the 12th anniversary of her death. The Queen of African Pop passed away on 9 May 2004‚ at the age of 39‚ when her life support machine was turned off. She had slipped into a coma… May 9, 2016 THERE is no party, wedding or celebration without the famous party song, Weekend Special. Weekend Special, made famous by the late and controversial South African pop star Brenda Fassie, is the one pop song that transcends all races, all sexes and all classes. Women and men, from townships to suburbia,… December 29, 2015 From reigning as queen of traditional music for years in Botswana, musician KhoiSan Maxy has shifted to a different genre since her relocation to South Africa, as revealed in her newly released album. Maxy took an afro-soul approach to her music to accommodate her versatility, she said, while promoting her… November 17, 2017