Important for Proteas to retain focus during test despite players sale Proteas captain Faf du Plessis has conceded that this weekend’s Indian Premier League (IPL) auction could cause unwanted disruptions in the Proteas camp. Du Plessis‚ AB de Villiers‚ Quinton de Kock‚ Hashim Amla‚ Kagiso Rabada‚ Morne Morkel and possibly Lungi Ngidi are among the 578 players to be sold during the auction in Bangalore. “Fortunately we don’t have our phones during the match [the third and final test against India], but it is normal that there will be disruptions because we are human‚” the SA captain said. “The IPL plays a big part in all of our lives, but for the management and myself the most important thing is to make sure we keep the concentration and energy levels in the test.” Du Plessis said the players would be allowed to talk about the auction at the end of the day’s play, but proper plans would be put in place to ensure they did not lose focus on the job at hand. “At the end of the day’s play if there are those who want to talk about the auction a little bit‚ they can do that. “But when it is test match time we must be switched on again.” Chris Morris‚ Dale Steyn‚ who is out with a heel injury but is expected to be fit for the tournament in the first week of April‚ and ODI all-rounder JP Duminy will also be part of the auction. Du Plessis also expressed concern about De Kock’s recent struggles with the bat in this series and has advised him not to over-analyse or complicate things in his bid to return to form. De Kock‚ who doubles up as wicketkeeper‚ is one of the best batsmen in the squad, but he has struggled in this series against India with low scores of 43‚ 8‚ 0 and 12 in the four innings he played in Cape Town and Centurion. “The key for someone like him is to not over-analyse or complicate things‚” Du Plessis said. “When a guy goes through one or five tests without scoring runs‚ he tends to over-analyse things, but with Quinny [De Kock] that is not what he will do. “His biggest asset is that he is a free player. “When he gets going, he completely takes the pressure to the opposition. “I know he would like to score runs like all the batters but, from a team perspective‚ the language we speak to him is to keep on having that positive intent. “He will be very hungry to score runs in this test match.” ICC probing possible interference with ball Stand-in Proteas test captain Faf du Plessis faces a nervous wait as the International Cricket Council investigates him for possible ball tampering. Du Plessis could land in hot water after footage emerged of him applying saliva to the ball with a sweet in his… November 17, 2016 FORMER Proteas captain Graeme Smith admitted to being a tad nervous for the players ahead of their tour of India later this month. South Africa will spend 72 days and play three T20s, five ODIs and four tests during their longest ever tour to India. The first test begins in… September 10, 2015 Captain believes IPL experience will boost SA PERHAPS the Himalayan mountain air got to Faf du Plessis in Dharamsala yesterday. Perhaps he knows how to get the locals on his side. Or perhaps he is among that rare breed of player who knows there is a world beyond the boundary.… October 2, 2015