The launch was “perfect”‚ but the ocean dragging in the bakkie was “unfortunate”.  “It was just a freak accident‚” was how Ballito Ski Boat Club acting chairperson Michael Pearce described a boat launch that went horribly wrong on Monday morning at about 5am. Local fisherman Herman Labuschagne asked his friend‚ Dirk Kriel‚ on Monday morning to launch his boat at the beach in Ballito. Kriel drove Labuschagne’s Toyota double-cab Hilux bakkie into the ocean before Labuschagne released his Cobra Cat boat named Pella without a hitch. Things went awry when the bakkie failed to go into reverse and was caught in the swell. Kriel managed to escape before the bakkie was flipped by the waves. Everyone escaped unhurt. Pearce said that this was the most popular launch method in KwaZulu-Natal for bigger boats. “It’s not something that some palooka just suddenly came down on holiday and decided he’s gonna try a new method. It’s a tried and trusted method.” Pearce said waves had previously splashed cars launching boats using the same method‚ but he had never seen a car dragged into the ocean. Pearce said Labuschagne was not commenting on the incident. The bakkie has been written off. “It’s kaput. It’s really bad.” Labuschagne remained out at sea‚ because of the possible danger of the bakkie rolling onto the boat in the surf. It took about 90 minutes to retrieve the bakkie from the waves. Pearce said Labuschange and Kriel were “avid fishermen”. “They fish more than they probably have breakfast. They are always on the water. They love it.” A small-scale farmer was murdered on Monday as thousands across South Africa marched to raise awareness about the scourge of crime affecting those living and working the country's farms‚ his neighbour confirmed. Vegetable farmer‚ Bokkie Potgieter‚ believed to be approximately 70 years old‚ was found hacked to death in his… October 30, 2017 When car thieves drove a stolen bakkie into a scrapyard in Alexandra‚ northern Johannesburg‚ they believed they had shaken off the cops and the car tracking companies. But what they hadn’t noticed was a strange matchbox-sized device in the cubbyhole. On Monday‚ police and law enforcement busted a suspected car… December 12, 2017 McLarens, Ferraris for sale – and for hire! A mesmerising R40-million supercar showroom, which is likely to leave petrolheads enthralled, will be launched in Port Elizabeth next month. With price tags ranging from R300 000 to R4-million, the collection of 16 of some of the rarest and most powerful supercars… May 31, 2017