The ANC’s National Executive Committee meeting on Friday night agreed that former party president Jacob Zuma should be removed from office – but his removal should be managed by the newly-elected ANC officials. In effect, this means that Zuma’s removal would be inevitable. However, the timing is yet to be decided. Zuma’s position in the national government had been under the spotlight since December, which brought an end to his two five-year terms as leader of the ANC. Two sources in the NEC meeting told TimesLIVE that there was agreement that Zuma should not be in office when the party starts its campaigning for the 2019 general elections as this may have a negative impact on the party. According to an insider, the NEC meeting initially heard calls for Zuma to be removed straight after the NEC meeting concluded. However, support later grew for his removal to handled in a managed way by party officials. Zuma’s removal from office was brought up on the second day of the two-day NEC meeting – currently taking place in Irene, Pretoria – and quickly found support after deputy minister of agriculture, Bheki Cele, firmly argued why it was necessary. A source said that the discussion about Zuma’s removal from office came after a debate earlier in the day about who should be on the national working committee. The ANC’s NEC is split among those who once fiercely opposed Zuma and those seen to have once defended him. One source said that some Zuma sympathisers argued that Zuma should be convinced to leave office amicably and that he exits office gracefully. – TimesLIVE Pleas for president’s recall reach a crescendo as ANC holds crisis talks after damning court ruling ANC leaders went into impromptu crisis talks yesterday afternoon as President Jacob Zuma’s position was made untenable by a crushing Constitutional Court ruling that questioned his ability to uphold the law – and ultimately his… April 1, 2016 Ministers threaten to quit and top NEC figures come close to blows Several cabinet ministers threatened to resign at the weekend if Jacob Zuma remained as South Africa’s president. The ministers made the dramatic threat on Sunday on the sidelines of a tense extended national executive committee (NEC) meeting. The… November 29, 2016 The ANC national executive committee resolved that President Jacob Zuma should not step down but that the party rather focus on uniting the movement. Secretary general Gwede Mantashe said there were "robust‚ difficult and candid" discussion about Zuma's leadership. The ANC felt it was "more urgent to direct energy at… November 29, 2016