The SA Students Congress (Sasco) and the National Education, Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) have joined forces to shut down the University of South Africa‚ forcing potential students to abandon their applications and registrations. This includes all operations at the Ring Road campus in Newton Park, Port Elizabeth. The two formations have consolidated their myriad demands to the university‚ with Sasco saying it was practical for students to be in solidarity with the union as the workers were their parents. Nehawu has deadlocked with Unisa management on the union’s demand for a 12% wage increase‚ with the university management offering 4.5%. Sasco is demanding‚ among other things‚ the scrapping of students’ historic debt and the abolition of application and registration fees. Nehawu’s national organiser, Ntsako Nombelane, confirmed all campuses of the university had been shut down until their demands were met. He said they were willing to settle for 9% if the university was willing to negotiate in good faith. “Our compromise was rejected by the university in August last year already but this time we are not backing down.” Nombelane said their members ranged from academic staff to cleaners and gardeners‚ with the lowest-paid worker at the university earning about R6 500. He said what the university was offering would make no difference in the lives of their members as it was below the consumer price index (CPI). “The university is not paying according to the higher education market. Unisa can afford the over 9% increase.” Nombelane also said the university would be forced to suspend the reopened application and registration process. Sasco’s Unisa branch secretary‚ Sphiwe Morema‚ said it was pointless for students to continue applying to the university when there were critical issues that needed to be addressed first. “Potential students have to fork out money to apply and register but they are the poorest of the poor. NSFAS [National Student Financial Aid Scheme] was supposed to have confirmed applications by now but no student has received confirmation from the scheme. This is a tactic to exclude students‚” he said. Morema said safety was also a major concern at the university’s campuses‚ security was lax and students were being raped on campus. Lecturers at the Eastcape Midlands College (EMC) have threatened a province-wide shutdown of its three campuses, vowing not to return to classes until their salaries are increased and temporary staff are made permanent. This development comes after a mediation meeting, scheduled for today, was cancelled by college management yesterday, just… February 17, 2015 Zandile Mbabela and Mkhululi Ndamase THE Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University is on a mission to talk the financially ailing National Student Financial Aid Scheme into funding more of its students. The move follows a notable drop in the number of students granted study loans by the government scheme this year.… January 30, 2014 The Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University has been shut down by the South African Students’ Congress which embarked on a mass protest on Monday morning (11 July) “after assessing the political situation on campus”. Sasco, in a statement, said the decision was informed by an assessment made regarding issues that affect… July 11, 2016