I have just read the article in Weekend Post (“Bayworld revamp on the cards”, January 6). That is great to hear as it is a very important component of PE and the metro. But my concerns are: 1. Why go all the way to Florida, US to visit Seaworld? If anyone has been following the new international trends, people around the world are finding performing animals very distasteful and international tour operators are no longer being associated with these cruel practices involving animals. If we, in this metro, want to attract international tourists we need to be in line with this important trend; 2. The Two Oceans Aquarium in Cape Town has struck the right balance in educating people and rehabilitating rescued/injured sealife, whether penguins, birds, turtles, seals etc. Instead of spending a vast amount of money visiting Florida and Seaworld, why not use the template of the Two Oceans Aquarium? Today there is Skype, Google and e-mail so is a trip to Florida Seaworld really necessary or a wasteful expenditure of taxpayers’ money? If you really want to go there, then please pay for it out of your own pocket and not the public purse. I am so tired of the window-dressing being used for “research” purposes. The mentioned R500-million for a small aquarium(s) for Port Elizabeth is concerning. That erf is small so maybe R50-million is do-able. And add the Oceanarium Cafe to bring in revenue as well and for the best crumpets in PE! 3. Why not bring SANParks on board as well? If memory serves me correctly, we have the Big Seven here, which is a big drawcard, so instead of it just being an aquarium and museum, it now also has very relevant features of the plight and poaching of rhinos, elephants, lions, pangolins, monkeys, etc to enhance awareness for these critically endangered animals as they are unique on our continent. There is so much scope which is valuable here for this much-needed project of the Bay aquarium. Let’s make the Bay aquarium, museum and wildlife centre something so unique and special! In the Kruger National Park they have very interesting centres that show amazing exhibitions. You see, not everyone is going to visit Addo Elephant National Park, but by incorporating these valuable aspects, we can use it to entice more visitors, so it’s a win-win situation for everyone. -Tania Brunner, Richmond Hill    Released shark pair ‘very happy’ to swim off after years in aquarium TWO ragged-tooth sharks certainly did not seem like fish out of water when they were released along the Mossel Bay coast yesterday, despite having spent several years at the Two Oceans Aquarium in Cape Town. “As soon as… May 25, 2016 Helen Crooks WE may have gone to Durban, the place of many a memorable holiday when we lived in Gauteng, mainly to watch the Liverpool Legends game, but with so much travelling involved we allowed ourselves an extra day to explore new developments in the city. Staying, as we did,… December 1, 2013 Trip to Sea World part of revamp research A trip to Sea World in Florida will help decide the way forward for Port Elizabeth’s Bayworld. The trip, to take place in April, comes as an extensive public participation process to discuss the revamp of Bayworld reaches its final stages. The proposed… February 23, 2017