If there is one leader in a democratic South Africa who has not only shown the middle finger to his political party, but also undermined the integrity of South Africans to the extreme, that is President Jacob Zuma. His arrogant political conduct did not only provoke our conscience, but recklessly tested our patience. He has stretched our tolerance and endurance to the limits. For anyone to ask whether Zuma’s removal from the highest office would further divide the ANC or unite it, that is neither here nor there. Anyone asking that question now is living in a fool’s paradise. It is his ascendancy to the highest office in the party and in the country that resulted in the splinter from the ANC and the formation of COPE. It was during his term of office in the party that the most influential ANC youth leader and other prominent youth leaders were expelled, and left to form a new political party. For the first time in the history of the revered erstwhile liberation movement it was tainted and associated with corruption and for the first time in the history of our democracy the highest office (the presidency) in the land was tainted and associated with corruption. He is the first head of state in our democracy to have broken his oath of office and violated the constitution, which is the supreme law of the land. Millions and millions of rands of taxpayers’ money were spent in court challenges, money that should have been utilised for education or building of houses. Given the above scenario, his recall would unify, instead of dividing the party. Some party loyalists argue that the removal of Zuma from the office would be tantamount to repeating the “mistake” that was made by recalling former president Thabo Mbeki in 2008 and would fulfil the wish of the opposition party’s regime-change agenda. To say the least, that is a most unfortunate and outrageous statement to make. Removing Mbeki was indeed a mistake, for which both the party and the country dearly suffered. It should not have happened and should never be repeated. Removing Zuma, on the other hand, is a different ball game altogether, it is the right thing to do. He never was presidential material in the first place. A dark cloud of 783 charges was hanging over him already when he was “deployed” in that office. He pointed a middle finger to the veterans of the party (when they called for his removal) by claiming that the way they spoke showed they didn’t know the ANC. He built himself a village in Nkandla with taxpayers’ money. Members of the party are all equal and should therefore be treated equally. Misconduct should be called misconduct, irrespective of the position one accused is occupying in the party. If it is a dismissible offence, it should be a dismissible offence for all members. Not only should he be removed from that office, he should also be hauled before the disciplinary structure of the party or integrity committee. Remember, people are constantly reminded that the ANC is not only leading its members, but the society as a whole. It goes without saying, therefore, that for the right thing to be done, it will not only have to listen to the branches, but the society as well. While many of his fellow political prisoners turned to the rigours and pleasures of study on Robben Island, the young Jacob Zuma, serving 10 years, opted to learn chess. Many of his comrades and fellow prisoners left the cold, harsh island armed with degrees. The young Dikgang Moseneke, jailed for 10… May 29, 2017 Some political parties on Friday (03/10/2014) reacted to the relocation of the Nobel Peace laureates' summit, and conflicting statements about the Dalai Lama's visa application. The Democratic Alliance Youth accused President Jacob Zuma of betraying the principles of a free, just, and fair society by allegedly denying the Dalai Lama… October 3, 2014 OUR president has really shown us as South Africans that we should never think that anything but himself can keep him from that honourable office of president of South Africa. After the Constitutional Court ruling everyone was now clear that the president had indeed had a hand in the whole… April 8, 2016