Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says the newly elected president of the African National Congress (ANC)‚ Cyril Ramaphosa‚ does not have what it takes to resurrect the embattled party. He also says there is an immunity offer under discussion for Jacob Zuma to leave the SA presidency ahead of the 2019 general elections. In an interview on Monday with Polokwane’s urban radio station‚ Energy FM‚ the firebrand politician said the outcomes of the ANC’s 54th elective conference would not change anything. “The ANC is sick to the core. Placing a healthy head on an ailing body will result in the head being sick. That conference was a concussion. Cyril Ramaphosa doesn’t have potential to unite the ANC.” Malema said. Malema claimed that the elected top six leaders under Ramaphosa would not be able to root out corruption or “stop the Guptas”. “Cyril will have to start the fight in his top six.” Malema predicted the end of Zuma’s administration before the end of 2018. “I don’t think that the ANC will keep Zuma until the end of this year. There are talks already happening and his condition is that he must be given immunity and his family. “If they decide to give Zuma immunity we will take them to court again and we will win. Our law doesn’t recognise giving people immunity. We will charge him and he will be arrested. We are not formed on the basis of anti-Jacob Zuma. We are an organisation advancing the call for our seven non-negotiable Cardinal Pillars‚” he said. According to him‚ there is nothing exceptional about Ramaphosa. “Donald Trump is a demonstration that anyone can become a president. Presidency is not set apart for ‘sophisticated’ people. We thought [George] Bush was the worst‚ but Trump showed us it can get worse‚” Malema said. The announcement of the new ANC Top Six has drawn massive reaction on Twitter. Here are some of the interesting views expressed: Fikile Mbalula‚ who was among those calling for Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma to succeed President Jacob Zuma wrote: "The branches have spoken‚ case closed. I join thousands congratulating the new… December 18, 2017 President Jacob Zuma has taken aim at ANC veterans who have called for him to be removed from office. He said the veterans could be a “vehicle used to cause more problems” in the ANC. The ANC Veterans’ League took part in a national consultative conference held by a number… December 16, 2017 President Jacob Zuma wielded the axe with abandon last night, chopping several ministers and deputies. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was the first casualty in the dramatic cabinet reshuffle that unfolded. Former Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba was appointed the new finance minister, while MP Sfiso Buthelezi was made his deputy… March 31, 2017