A burglary suspect who broke through a Port Elizabeth bank’s front door on Wednesday night – punching through the glass with his hands – was arrested just an hour later. The 23-year-old had allegedly stolen just a computer monitor. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the suspect shattered the front door of the Absa Bank in Govan Mbeki Avene, North End, at about 11pm. She said police were immediately alerted when the bank’s security systems picked up movement inside. “The K9 Unit responded to the scene but on arrival the man had already fled. Traces of blood were found inside the bank after the suspect injured himself,” Naidu said. “The CCTV footage was then viewed by the bank’s off-site monitoring company who relayed a description of the suspect to police. Cameras show the suspect running inside, grabbing a computer screen and fleeing. “The outside cameras showed the man running into a nearby side street.” Naidu said the suspect was found walking in Middle Street, just around the corner, within an hour of the burglary. “His hands were cut and the computer monitor was under his arm. He did not attempt to run when he realise he was caught.” The suspect is expected to appear in The Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court on a charge of burglary on Friday. A man suspected of raping a student and violently stabbing another in a Nelson Mandela University computer laboratory late on Monday has been arrested. The breakthrough came yesterday afternoon after police received a tip-off about a man trying to sell a suspected stolen computer in Govan Mbeki Avenue in the… October 5, 2017 A New Brighton man was arrested yesterday after stealing a German tourist’s bank card at the Summerstrand Village Shopping Centre. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the man had asked the tourist to draw money for him. “The suspect then offered to help the tourist draw the money,” Naidu said.… December 1, 2016 A medical examination has revealed that the second Nelson Mandela University student involved in Monday’s violent attack at the university was also raped. Details emerged today when police confirmed that the 29-year-old suspect who was arrested on Wednesday afternoon faced another charge of rape. The man, who is expected to… October 5, 2017