Visitors battle under sustained assault by home team at The Wanderers The Wanderers pitch may still have time to parade its apparent iniquity, but South Africa cultivated its devilry perfectly to bundle India out for 187 in 76 overs. It was not all plain sailing for the hosts, as they lost Aiden Markram (2) to Bhuvneshwar Kumar, but nightwatchman Kagiso Rabada (0) and Dean Elgar (4) saw off the threat to rest on 6/1. When Virat Kohli won the toss and elected to bat, he must have primed himself with the challenge of batting in vile conditions. The clouds were pregnant with lateral movement in the air, while a well-paced surface menaced the visitors. Parts of Kohli’s 106-ball knock were chancy and he also benefited from two lives gifted by Vernon Philander on 11 and AB de Villiers on 32, off Kagiso Rabada and Morne Morkel respectively. But Kohli (54) also looked the most comfortable Indian batsmen and some of his cover drives and punches down the ground would have made the MCC coaching manual green with envy. Charmed lives have short-term leases and when he flashed a loose drive to De Villiers at third slip off Lungi Ngidi, it was a case of when, not if, they would be bowling on the first day. Cheteshwar Pujara had a lot to do with India batting for the better part of the day, even though he was subjected to cricket’s version of Chinese drip-torture by Philander. In his 50th test, Philander (2/36) bowled on a 5c piece just outside off-stump as his first spell read 8-7-1-1. His sublime control was too much for openers Murali Vijay and Lokesh Rahul, with Rahul inside-edging to Quinton de Kock off Philander to leave India reeling at 7/1. Vijay (8) was tossed and turned like a tender steak and did well to last eight overs before nicking to De Kock off Rabada (3/39). Pujara would have loved to be described as cricket’s monastic personification, but his technique disagreed with that. Having survived a marginal review from Ian Gould off Philander, he was subjected to a technical scrutiny like no other. At times, Philander made the ball talk in a language Pujara did not even try to understand. When he finally got off the mark after 54 balls in 81 minutes, he was greeted with a cheer often reserved for century-makers. In the morning session, Pujara eked out five runs from 66 balls while his second-session return was an admirable 22 from 79. While 45/2 was a decent return for South Africa, they delivered 16 maidens in 27 overs. Runs for India were harder to find than water in Cape Town. That the sun came out meant Kohli and Pujara should have lasted longer than their 206-ball, 84-run third- wicket partnership, but their middle order had long lost faith in itself. While Pujara pushed on to a 179-ball 50, the recalled Ajinkya Rahane (9) provided little by way of resistance as India lost three wickets on 144. Pujara, Parthiv Patel (two) and Hardik Pandya (0) fell to Andile Phehlukwayo (2/25) and Morkel (2/47). The expected late-over fireworks came from Kumar as Mohammed Shami (8) and Ishant Sharma (0) made fleeting appearances. Kumar entertained through his 49-ball 30 before Rabada ended the tomfoolery. Indian captain determined to save pride and avoid whitewash Indian captain Virat Kohli may have only pride to play for ahead of today’s third test at the Wanderers in Johannesburg, but the thought of just playing at the Bullring gives every reason to be excited. In what was his first… January 24, 2018 Telford Vice VIRAT Kohli stands 10cm taller than Sachin Tendulkar. On the opening day of the test series between South Africa and India at the Wanderers yesterday, he grew several feet in stature. To Kohli has fallen the mission impossible of succeeding Tendulkar at No 4 in India's batting lineup.… December 19, 2013 QUINTON de Kock hit 103 and Morne Morkel claimed 4/39 as South Africa brushed aside India by 18 runs in the third one-day international in Rajkot yesterday. De Kock, the 22-year-old left-handed opener, took advantage of a flat pitch to notch up his seventh one-day century – the fourth against… October 19, 2015