It is the latest Silicon Valley trend — a chemically engineered drink that seems to allow the body to achieve the fat-burning benefits of fasting without having to cut back on food. San Francisco start-up HVMN — pronounced “human” – says the new drink, HVMN Ketone Ester, claims to produce the same effects in the body as days of fasting, a process called ketosis. However, the first product of its kind costs $33 (R407) for a 65ml bottle. Geoff Woo, the company’s CEO, is 28, a Silicon Valley-based Stanford graduate and the co-founder of HVMN. Brianna Stubbs, HVMN’s lead researcher, is a former British rowing world champion who joined a study on the effects of ketone esters in competitive rowers, while she was a student athlete at Oxford University. Some scientists, however, have been sceptical about the benefits of the product, unsure that the benefits shown in studies on rats and other animals will ultimately translate to better health in humans. Miguel Toribio-Mateas, chair of the British Association for Applied Nutrition and Nutritional Therapy, said: “When it comes to physical and mental performance, translating animal research into meaningful results in humans can be a stretch.” Martin MacDonald, founder of Mac-Nutrition Uni, said the use of ketone ester supplements was “certainly interesting”, but added that “at present the research is rather underwhelming”. He said: “When we look at things that people actually care about, like body fat levels or performance, they just do not seem to translate to any meaningful difference to the consumer”. – The Sunday Telegraph SOME TIME ago, I was asked to look at the topic of fad diets and in particular, the Dukan Diet was mentioned (I'd never even heard of it!). January 25, 2014 Study finds fresh is best for kids SCIENTISTS have found that children who regularly drink fresh farm rather than shop milk are less likely to develop asthma by the time they go to school. Several studies in the past have shown that living on a farm protects children from asthma… February 11, 2016 Vuyolwethu Ndongeni SCIENTISTS have long known the health properties of rooibos, but a Port Elizabeth professor and her team have taken it a step further. Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) Professor Maryna van de Venter along with Dr Trevor Koekemoer of the department of Biochemistry and Microbiology have teamed up… May 2, 2012