The ANC’s National Executive Committee (NEC) elected its National Working Committee (NWC) late on Friday‚ which included a mix of leaders belonging to factions both supporting and opposing newly elected party president Cyril Ramaphosa. ANC MP and defeated presidential hopeful Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma received the highest number of votes along with Housing Minister Lindiwe Sisulu – both received 61 votes. An outcry over the lack of gender equality in the party’ top six officials led to a strong lobby for women to be elected to the NWC. There are now 12 women ANC leaders and eight men on the NWC. While there are a number of returning members of the NWC like Jeff Radebe and Derek Hanekom‚ younger members such as Ronald Lamola and Dakota Legoete were also elected. According to the party constitution‚ the working committee is made up of the top six officials and 20 members of the NEC. Their work is to carry out decisions of the NEC and ensure all ANC structures carry out their duties and functions.
Initially‚ four provincial leaders from the Free State and KwaZulu Natal in their capacity as ex-oficio members participated in the vote for the NWC‚ but their votes where excluded from the final tally because the two provincial structures were dissolved. The NEC resolved that following two separate court judgments that saw both provincial leadership structures prevented from voting at the party’s conference‚ they should be dissolved and a tentative leadership be put in place pending the rerun of both provincial conferences. The biggest decision from the two day NEC is a resolution that state president Jacob Zuma be removed from office in a process managed by ANC officials. In effect‚ this means Zuma’s removal would be inevitable but the timing is yet to be decided. Two sources who were in the NEC meeting on Friday told TimesLIVE there was agreement that Zuma should not be in office when the party started its campaigning for the 2019 general elections‚ as this could have a negative impact on the party. Here is the full NWC list:
Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma
Lindiwe Sisulu
Naledi Pandor
Jeff Radebe
Angie Motshekga
Derek Hanekom
Edna Molewa
Thoko Didiza
Nomvula Mokonyane
Nathi Mthethwa
Ronald Lamola
Tina Joemat Peterson
Dakota Legoete
Senzo Mchunu
Zizi Kodwa
Tony Yengeni
Bathabile Dlamini
Nomaindia Mfeketho
Barbara Creecy
Thandi Modise Zuma sidesteps threat to leadership with wily political manoeuvring South Africans’ dream of an early Zexit were dashed yesterday as President Jacob Zuma firmly cemented his ANC and South African presidency by calling in a series of IOUs, according to commentators. He also apologised on Tuesday to the ANC’s national… April 6, 2017 The issue of the disputed Eastern Cape elective conference took centre stage at the ANC national executive committee (NEC) gathering in Irene, near Pretoria yesterday, leading to the meeting being adjourned while the top leadership met behind closed doors. At issue was the report tabled by secretary-general Gwede Mantashe, which… November 13, 2017 ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe made a revealing remark on Wednesday about the fierce disagreements going on behind closed doors within the ruling party. “The point we are making is that we find it adult enough to close a door‚ beat each other up and‚ if you find me with… April 6, 2017