Winnie Madikizela-Mandela has lost her claim to Nelson Mandela’s house in Qunu following a Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA) ruling on Friday. Madikizela-Mandela had appealed against a 2016 decision by the Eastern Cape High Court that she had no claim to the property and that Mandela was the rightful owner. In his will‚ Madiba left the property to the Nelson Mandela Family Trust for the benefit of the family and that of his wife‚ Graca Machel‚ and her family. Madikizela-Mandela wanted the courts to overturn a 1997 decision by the erstwhile Minister of Land Affairs to donate the land to Mandela. But the SCA – in agreeing with the Mthatha High Court – found that there was an “unreasonable delay” by Madikizela-Mandela to review that decision. “In respect of the application to have the delay condoned‚ the SCA held that a reasonable person in the position of [Madikizela-Mandela] would have asserted a right to ownership of the property before Mr Mandela’s death. It found that [Madikizela-Mandela’s] delay was prejudicial to Mr Mandela’s estate and heirs because his version of events was not available. It thus refused the application for condonation‚” a summary of the judgement read. Click here for the full judgment Winnie Madikizela-Mandela's claim for the late statesman Nelson Mandela's Qunu home has been dismissed by the Mthatha High Court. Mthatha Deputy Judge President Zamani Nhlangulela took only a few minutes to read out the conclusion of his judgment on Thursday morning. After dismissing Madikizela-Mandela’s… April 7, 2016 CIVIL and customary law came under the spotlight in the Mthatha High Court yesterday as Winnie MadikizelaMandela launched her claim to former president Nelson Mandela’s Qunu house. The property was bequeathed to the Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela Family Trust by Mandela for the benefit of the Mandela family – including his… March 1, 2016 Things are looking up for Nelson Mandela’s second wife, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, after the Supreme Court of Appeal granted her special leave to appeal against the Mthatha High Court decision which declared her application for the former president’s Qunu home null and void. Madikizela-Mandela launched her audacious application in 2014 a… January 27, 2017