ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule says there are no timelines attached to an undertaking that the ANC’s top six officials manage President Jacob Zuma’s exit from office. Speaking after a two-day lekgotla‚ Magashule said the ANC officials were “seized with the matter” but would not give any details of what the discussions entailed. “The NEC discussed this matter and we all agreed that this matter is with the officials. “There will be interaction between comrade Zuma and comrade [Cyril] Ramaphosa. There are no timelines. We can’t put timelines‚” he said. Magashule denied claims that Zuma would be made to resign this week‚ saying the ANC should be given time and space to deal with the matter. He would not confirm whether a political deal would be offered to Zuma in return for his swift exit from office. “I don’t think we can be dictated to by anyone on how to deal with the matter‚” he said. Magashule also refused to answer specific questions on revelations that more than R200-million meant for a dairy project to uplift the lives of poor people in Vrede‚ in the Free State‚ was siphoned off by the Guptas and their associates. Magashule is still Free State premier and has long defended the Guptas. He has also publicly denied their involvement in the Estina dairy project. “My son has long been working for the Guptas – it has never been a secret. My son is not involved in the Vrede dairy. So let the law take its place‚” he said. Magashule said they would prefer to let the prosecuting authority deal with the matter. Free State premier Ace Magashule said the chaos which prevented President Jacob Zuma from speaking at Cosatu’s May Day rally in the Free State was embarrassing. A crowd of anti-Zuma workers disrupted the event to the point that Cosatu leadership made the decision to end it early on Monday‚ without… May 1, 2017 Dear ANC delegates, there is nothing that I will tell you today that, in your heart of hearts, you don’t know. You know that your comrade Jacob Zuma has made you, and all of us, poorer. Your children and your nephews and nieces are unemployed – he has taken unemployment… December 11, 2017 Today Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver his first address as the president of the ANC to a 5 000-strong membership at Nasrec in Johannesburg. Although the speech itself may be quite pedestrian, the moment will be significant. It will set the tone for what will, by all accounts, be a difficult… December 20, 2017