With reference to the In my View column by Pedro Mzileni (“Actions of racism victims cannot be considered illegitimate”, January 18), wow, he is one angry young man. I am not arguing with his issue about H&M, but there are far better ways to express yourself versus the methods being employed by the EFF. Destroying property and intimidating people will not resolve the matter. This is the method used by Adolf Hitler in the 1930s. Hitler unleashed his brownshirts onto the Jews and anyone else who disagreed with him, including the brownshirts intimidating the democratically elected government. A reminder of the past. Martin Niemöller (1892–1984) was a prominent Protestant pastor who emerged as an outspoken public foe of Hitler and spent the last seven years of Nazi rule in concentration camps. Niemöller is perhaps best remembered for the quotation: “First they came for the socialists, and I did not speak out – “”Because I was not a socialist. “Then they came for the trade unionists, and I did not speak out – “Because I was not a trade unionist. “Then they came for the Jews, and I did not speak out – “Because I was not a Jew. “Then they came for me – and there was no one left to speak for me.” Lest we forget. I am in no way condoning racism or the actions by racists or denying the damage that apartheid did to the people of South Africa. The people who are offended by H&M have freedom of choice not to spend their money in the H&M stores. A suggestion for Mzileni: direct your anger and frustration at the damage Sadtu has inflicted on 23 years of school-going children through its systematic destruction of the schooling in the township schools. These schools should have been transformed into centres of excellence by the teachers, but instead the kids were neglected while Sadtu used the teachers as a power base to play politics. Destruction of property and intimidation have never solved problems. You may gain some short-term advantage by this action, but in the long term it will be a lose-lose outcome. Boris Johnson says Hitler-like policies possible THE European Union is pursuing a similar goal to Hitler in trying to create a superstate, Boris Johnson says. In a dramatic interview, the former mayor of London warned that while bureaucrats in Brussels were using different methods from the Nazi dictator, they shared… May 16, 2016 Experts reject Israeli leader’s claim of Palestinian role ISRAELI Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu sparked uproar in Israel yesterday for suggesting that a World War 2-era Palestinian leader convinced the Nazis to adopt their Final Solution to exterminate European Jews. Holocaust experts slammed Netanyahu’s comments as historically inaccurate and serving the… October 22, 2015 I FIRST saw this heinous post ("ANC poll worker in Hitler row", Herald July 15) on Facebook and was appalled at the hatred spewed forth by someone who claims to work in the ANC's communications office, in the Western Cape. With Madiba Day almost upon us (this Friday), I recoil… July 16, 2014