We can only be thankful that three pivotal sections of the Maintenance Amendment Act have now come info effect. For families with children of school-going age, January can be a stressful month as the bills mount for school fees, new uniforms, stationery and the like. After the spoiling and gifts of Christmas there often is simply not enough money set aside to pay for the mundane bills of the new year. Where there are two income-earning parents it is wrong that only one has to shoulder the burden of these expenses, but sadly this is often the case with many defaulting on maintenance, to the detriment of their families. While many separated couples do fairly share the financial burden of looking after their children, there are too many “deadbeat dads” – because without wanting to appear sexist, it is more often the fathers, with men generally in a stronger economic position than women, who default on maintenance payments. One attorney quoted in The Herald yesterday spoke of an “epidemic” of child support dodgers. Thanks to amendments which came into effect last Friday however, there are now more avenues open for single parents to track down and extract the money they are legally due. Whether you are wealthy or poor, there is an obligation to contribute to the care of your child, and service delivery is not only important for roads, water and housing issues but also for judicial services such as a functioning maintenance system. Dodgers who default on their monthly child support payments will now have their personal information submitted to credit bureaus and face being blacklisted. Furthermore, if they are trying to duck out of reach of the law but have a cellphone number, the court may now ask the cellphone providers to provide the court with their contact information. Plus, if there is a cost incurred to the court in doing this, the court may now also order the evasive party to refund any costs incurred. Along with members of the legal fraternity we welcome these amendments which tighten up measures aimed at defaulters, ultimately protecting children and safeguarding their rights. Parents who do not pay their children's maintenance will soon be in for a shock should they apply for a loan or credit. Last week, the National Credit Regulator gazetted new affordability guidelines for the credit industry aimed at bringing child maintenance defaulters to book. The draft regulations were hailed… August 6, 2014 Violence is an umbrella term for physical actions which occur when one or more parties fail to resolve disputes through peaceful means, much like the apartheid regime did to unarmed protesting children on June 16 1976 in Soweto. Intimidation is the use of threats of force or other means to… July 22, 2016 WHILE the first day of the new school year is often a jittery business with every effort being made for the most part to ensure proper preparedness, it turns out the major hiccup which proved a recurring theme this week was no fault of the Education Department or any other… January 14, 2016