The National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) will be granting bursaries instead of loans to undergraduate students this year in line with government’s new fee policy. President Jacob Zuma announced on December 16 that government would be phasing in “fully subsidised free higher education and training for poor and working class South Africans”‚ over a five-year period. The announcement has resulted in the establishment of the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET) Bursary Scheme for indigent students to access tertiary education. According to the department‚ returning students who were funded by NSFAS in 2017 or earlier will also be awarded bursaries. “This NSFAS allocation will not have to be repaid‚” it said. However‚ the department stipulated that “past loans will not be converted to a bursary at this time”. Those who applied to NSFAS for funding by November 30 and whose family’s gross household income threshold is R122‚000 per annum would be eligible. “All eligible students will be provided with a bursary that covers the actual cost of their tuition‚ plus an allowance for prescribed learning materials‚” the department said in a statement. NSFAS has already received in excess of 300‚000 applications for first-year students who have signalled their intentions to study at universities and TVET colleges in the 2018 academic year. “We have already assessed 80% of the applications using the new criteria‚” said NSFAS CEO Steven Zwane. E-mail your letter to The Herald THE National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) does not usually respond in public to the barbed comments from Free State University vice chancellor Jonathan Jansen. But his latest criticism cannot go unchallenged because it is misleading. Students deserve better. There are two main reasons… February 28, 2014 More than R650 million of National Student Financial Aid Scheme funds set aside for grants‚ in the form of allocations for loans and bursaries‚ was unutilised for the current year ending in March. This is according to a parliamentary reply to a question submitted by the Democratic Alliance's Prof Belinda… March 15, 2016 EDUCATING its citizens is the best investment a country can make. According to a report by Higher Education South Africa (Hesa), the government would get up to R1.90 back in revenue and the economy could grow by up to R11 in real terms for every R1 spent additionally on higher… March 25, 2014