The trial of a disgraced legal commentator, set to start yesterday, was postponed again after Brenda Wardle requested more time to prepare for her own defence. Wardle, 56, was arrested in June after allegedly pretending to be a practising legal attorney and swindling an Eastern Cape family out of more than R500 000 to help an imprisoned relative of the family obtain parole. She faces a charge of fraud after it emerged that she was not a practising attorney as defined by the Attorneys Act when she told the family she could get the relative, serving a 12-year sentence for murder, an early parole. Appearing briefly in the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court, Wardle said she would represent herself, but needed more time to prepare. She said she had not been afforded an opportunity to gather all the necessary documents and was awaiting the outcome of an application to the Gauteng High Court against the minister of justice and six others because of inadequate facilities for her preparations. Wardle wants the courts to allow her access to her personal laptop, a telephone and court documents, among other items. Prosecutor Tjaart van Zyl said he had arranged for Wardle to be put in a single cell at the North End Prison so that she could prepare. Legal documents, books and the use of the investigating officer were also offered. But Van Zyl told the court Wardle had refused these offers. “It seems as if she [is trying] to be released without standing trial,” he said. A provisional trial date has been set for March 22. Legal expert Wardle adamant she will defend herself Dead set on conducting her own defence because she believes with her qualifications she can do a better job than most, legal commentator Brenda Wardle has asked a judge to order her immediate release so that she can prepare for trial. The… October 13, 2017 Pistorius commentator ‘pretended to be lawyer’ CONTROVERSIAL legal analyst Brenda Wardle has found herself on the wrong side of the law again, this time for allegedly pretending to be an attorney and offering to assist a convicted murderer to be released on parole. A warrant has been issued for her… July 22, 2015 The case in which a former politician is accused of defaming Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip has been postponed again, this time after the accused failed to arrange legal representation for herself. Former DA activist Nontuthuzelo Jack appeared briefly in the Port Elizabeth Regional Court yesterday, where she was… September 8, 2017