The Shakespearean Festival President Rocky Mann and director Linda-Louise Swain won the trophy for Show of the Year for Much Ado About Nothing at the Showtime Revue Let the Good Times Roll, at the Pemads Little Theatre on Friday evening. Naming sponsor Woodlands Dairy chief executive officer, Lex Gutsche, presented the super-sized Showtime floating trophy to the duo, the third year in a row that the PE Shakespearean Festival has won the prize. Linda-Louise Swain also won the Woodlands Dairy Trophy for Special Achievement in Theatre for her imaginative re-shaping of the Shakespeare comedy. The Third of the “Big Three” Awards – the Mann Family’s Trophy for Innovation in Theatre – was won by Marlene Pieterse for her inspired idea in putting all six dancers in the award-winning Showtime 2017 dance troupe into matching black wigs, which unified the group and helped in their contributions to the revue and impact on audiences immensely. The long-running awards programme earlier last week also inducted three new members into the Showtime Hall of Fame: Anthoula Buchner, in her youth a dancer but, for the past 16 years, catering for the needs of the PE dance world in business; Rose Cowpar, for major services to theatre in a very short space of time as a Port Elizabeth resident, and Wayne Hughes, Showtime’s popular musical and vocal director since inception in 1991, and his recent six-year return to the function. Much Ado About Nothing also won in many other categories, notably Best Revival, and for many cast members, with Jacques Batista and Bernadine Gardiner both gaining Best Acting Honours as Benedick and Beatrice, Leslie Speyers winning both as Best Supporting Actor and Best Comedy Portraya as Dogberry, Amy Huntly, best supporting actress as Margaret, Jonathan Minne, Best Debut, as Leonato and Bradley Emslie Best Cameo as Verges. Best Actress and Actor in a Musical honours went to Tara-Jane Stern and Thuba Myeki, as Annie Oakley and Frank Butler in Annie Get Your Gun.
In the professional ranks, all five certificates presented went to Ian von Memerty’s staging of Synergy, which won as Show of the Year, with individual honours going to Ian and Vivienne von Memerty, David Limbert and Roelof Colyn. The annual Showtime 2018 Theatre Awards and production of Let the Good Times Roll were presented by Woodlands Dairy in collaboration with the PE Musical and Dramatic Society, supported by Business and Arts South Africa (BASA). The full list of the main awards awards is as follows. Arts Correspondent THE Ugly Duckling musical, Honk!, directed for Pemads by Greg Everard, and an innovative revival of Hamlet, staged by Linda-Louise Swain for the PE Shakespearean Festival, each claimed many accolades at the annual Showtime Awards ceremonies in the Savoy Theatre on Friday. Honk! carried off the prestigious Nedbank… February 4, 2014 For the second successive year, the Clover Showtime Show of the Year Trophy was presented to a play, The Tempest, this year on the Little Theatre stage on Friday evening. Clover’s senior national promotions officer Milly Kemp handed over the sparkling red, white and blue beribboned cup to PE Shakespearean… January 31, 2017 The Theodor Herzl High School hit musical, Blood Brothers, and the Disney junior version of Peter Pan staged jointly by Collegiate and Grey Junior Schools, claimed the new Woodlands Dairy Showtime trophies as high and primary schools shows of the year at the annual Junior award ceremonies in the Pemads… January 26, 2018