A man thought to be linked to the brutal murder‚ decapitation and dismemberment of a woman in Umbilo‚ Durban‚ last week was arrested on Monday. The grim find was made by a passerby on Wednesday last week in the Pigeon Valley Park. The woman had been decapitated‚ and her breasts‚ genitals and several fingers removed. Police spokesperson Colonel Thembeka Mbhele confirmed that a 32-year-old man had been detained. “After thorough investigation and with the assistance by the community‚ a suspect was arrested and detained in Umbilo police station. Thorough interrogation led to the recovery of the missing finger as well as the head belonging to the victim‚” she said. “The suspect will be charged with murder and will appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court soon‚” she added. It is understood that the woman‚ who police surmise was in her 30s‚ has yet to be identified‚ Acting KZN Provincial Commissioner Bheki Langa praised the officers for their quick response in apprehending the suspect and the recovery of the missing body parts. “We will ensure that we do everything within our control to ensure that the suspect is placed before a competent court so that he can account for his actions. We appreciated the commitment shown by the members of the community in fighting crime in our province. “We appeal to anyone with a missing family member to contact Umbilo police station on 031 203 2407/6 or Crime Stop on 08600 10111‚” he said. Durban police have arrested a man in connection with the abduction and murder of Siam Lee. Police spokesman Thulani Zwane confirmed that an arrest had been made in Hillcrest‚ on Wednesday night. Lee’s relatives positively identified her remains last week‚ several days after her burnt body was found in a… January 18, 2018 AN EASTERN Cape rugby player is the main suspect in the grisly axe murder of three men in  Lamontville, Umbilo and Yellowwood Park. The former  Blue Bulls and South Africa U21 rugby player was arrested on Tuesday and will today appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court. The 34-year-old man played… March 31, 2011 A man has been arrested in Port Elizabeth in connection with the disappearance of a young Western Cape woman. The 32-year-old man was detained at dawn on Saturday at a takeaway outlet after police responded to a suspicious-vehicle alert from a member of the public, police said yesterday. The woman, Nicola… January 23, 2017