Four people have died in a passenger train crash in the Free State. The Shosholoza Meyl passenger train which left Port Elizabeth on Wednesday afternoon en route to Johannesburg was involved in a collision involving a car and a truck near Kroonstad at about 9am. The train is on fire in video posted on social media.  Netcare 911 spokesman Tebogo Magoro confirmed that four people had died and so far 40 had received treatment on the scene. The deceased have not yet been identified. Eastern Cape Health Department spokesman, Sizwe Kupelo, said the Eastern Cape Emergency Services were on standby to help if asked. “We have not been asked to help yet, but we will assist in bringing the injured home if we are required to do so,” he said. Shosholoza Meyl spokeswoman Daisy Daniel earlier confirmed the incident but could not provide further information as she had just arrived on the scene. Meanwhile, officials at the Port Elizabeth Train Station were unaware of the incident and referred requests for comment to an area manager in Queenstown who was also not aware of the incident.  About 100 people have been injured after a Shosholoza Meyl train - travelling from Port Elizabeth - derailed between Hennenman and Kroonstad in the Free State on Thursday morning‚ according to emergency services. ER24’s Russel Meiring told TimesLIVE the number of injured was changing constantly. The train was travelling from… January 4, 2018 [tribulant_slideshow gallery_id="44"] Traumatised passengers tell of horror as trains collided, killing two A LOUD bang and what felt like a huge tremor was what passengers recalled after two trains crashed headon outside King William’s Town yesterday. A thick pall of smoke filled the sky after the horror accident, which left… May 20, 2015 The Railway Safety Regulator said on Wednesday that 63 people were injured in the derailment of a PRASA Shosholoza Meyl long distance train‚ travelling from Johannesburg to Cape Town. The train derailed between Modderrivier and Heuningneskloof stations in the Northern Cape on Tuesday night. “Sixty passengers‚ the train driver‚ his… August 19, 2015