Booking opens today for the 28th edition of the annual Showtime Awards revue, Let the Good Times Roll. Usually, Showtime booking, either general or via any form of voucher or invitation letter, is done at Computicket outlets and the PE Opera House box office – but with that theatre closed until January 18, this year booking can only be done, regardless of type of reservation, by e-mailing Phrosné Phillips on phrosne1@gmail.com Tickets are R70 for adults and R50 for senior citizens, students and children, with variations. Let the Good Times Roll will run from Monday January 22 to Saturday January 27, with performances at 7.30pm, except the opening night, January 23 (high and primary school awards), and the main awards on Friday January 26. Tickets for the award nights on Tuesday January 23 (juniors) and Friday January 26 (seniors) are priced at R70 throughout the house. The opening performance on Monday January 22 is a private house for Senior Citizens Villages. The Thursday of the run is a sponsors and patrons night but some public seats are available at R50. Vouchers are obtainable, as usual, from company members at slightly reduced pricing of R60 and R40. Let the Good Times Roll is again devised and written by executive producer Bob Eveleigh and directed by Siobhan Day. The annual young talent development musical comedy revue will salute the 1950s, a decade that has come to be known as the brightest in US showbiz history. The revue features salutes to many of the singing, dancing and comedy stars of the period in Hollywood and on Broadway by the 22-strong company. Port Elizabeth’s long-running Showtime Awards Revue celebrates its 28th anniversary this year with a second generation of young performers treading the boards. Woodlands Dairy Showtime Let the Good Times Roll will be presented at the Little Theatre in Athol Fugard Terrace from January 22 to 27, in conjunction with Pemads.… January 8, 2018 The theatre year kicks off later this month with the 28th annual Showtime Awards Revue, Let the Good Times Roll, which will be presented at the Little Theatre in Athol Fugard Terrace from Monday, January 22. The long-running programme, which has a new naming rights sponsor in Woodlands Dairy, saw… January 5, 2018 The company of performers in the 27th annual 2017 Clover Showtime Awards Revue, A Grand Night for Singing, are back at the Charlo Primary School Hall for the final sequence of rehearsals leading up to the show’s opening night on Monday, January 23 at the Little Theatre at 7pm. Clover… January 12, 2017