Russian whistleblower Grigory Rodchenkov, the source of revelations about Moscow’s state-sponsored doping, claims in a German TV report broadcast yesterday that President Vladimir Putin ordered the conspiracy. “Of course it came all the way from the top, from the president,” Rodchenkov told German public broadcaster ARD in a phone interview, according to a report on the station’s website. “Because only the president can deploy the domestic secret service FSB for such a special task,” he is quoted as saying in the German-language report. Putin could not deny knowledge of the scheme, Rodchenkov claims in the report. Rodchenkov is the former director of the Moscow anti-doping laboratory who fled to the United States in 2016, saying he feared for his life after the sudden death of two senior officials from Russia’s anti-doping agency. Russia has been banned from taking part at the 2018 Winter Olympics and Paralympics although individual athletes who prove themselves to be clean can compete under strict conditions and under a neutral flag. Rodchenkov also said he was convinced that Putin was kept informed about all details of the programme by Vitali Mutko, the then sports minister and current vice-premier. He said in his own former post, he reported to then vice sports minister Yuri Nagornikh, who in turn reported to Mutko, who reported to Putin. He also claimed that, before the 2014 Sochi Games, Russia had run a state-organised doping system at the 2008 Beijing and 2012 London Games. Since he fled Russia, Rodchenkov has entered an FBI witness protection programme, while Russia has issued an international warrant for his arrest. – AFP Athletics body knee-deep in scandal JAMAICAN sprint superstar Usain Bolt shone at the Beijing world championships, but athletics was later mired in a shocking doping-linked corruption scandal that plunged the Olympics’ No 1 sport into crisis. Bolt bagged an unprecedented fifth triple gold medal haul at a global championship in… December 22, 2015 THE two men bidding to lead world athletics into a new era, Sebastian Coe and Sergey Bubka, offered contrasting reactions yesterday to the latest doping storm to engulf the sport’s governing International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF). While Coe, who is going head-to-head with fellow Olympic champion Bubka to become… August 6, 2015 THE International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) was again forced to defend its actions over Russian doping this week after a leaked e-mail showed how officials planned a damage-limitation strategy before the 2013 Moscow World Championships. The e-mail suggesting a “special dossier” on Russian drugs cheats was from IAAF deputy… December 23, 2015