In response to reports of listeriosis outbreaks in the country as well as in the NMBM (“Cases of listeriosis infection in Bay increase to nine”, January 18), according to statistics from January 10, three cases have been identified in the NMBM to date. Two weeks ago, Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi closed down a Sovereign Foods abattoir after the identification of traces of listeriosis. This abattoir has been re-opened. Listeriosis is caused by a bacterium found in soil, water, decaying vegetation, raw milk and other dairy products. As recently reported, listeriosis has a high mortality rate when compared with illnesses caused by most other foodborne diseases, at between 20% and 25%. It is a serious disease, but it is treatable and preventable. It is not uncommon for listeriosis cases to occur annually. However, the number of cases reported between January and December last year were 557 in all provinces, substantially more than the annual average of between 60 and 80 cases. This had triggered a review of all cases diagnosed in all hospitals. The current outbreak is believed to have been caused by a food widely consumed and distributed across all socioeconomic groups. We must do all within our power to contain and stop the spread of this deadly outbreak. Even at the slightest notion of listeriosis, proper quarantine steps must be taken. The NMBM’s environmental health sub-directorate has been in communication with Sovereign Foods regarding its farms and abattoirs in the NMBM, as well as for comment on the developments nationally. According to Sovereign Foods, “The biological early risk detection systems of Sovereign Foods show no clinical symptoms of listeria monocytogenes found in the Sovereign flock at our farms in the Nelson Mandela Bay metro.” Sovereign says it maintains weekly random product testing and monthly environmental swabs to detect enumeration of listeria monocytogenes as part of a stringent biosecurity protection programme. “The company also maintains FSSC 22000 accreditation. “To obtain this accreditation, monthly site inspections are undertaken by DAFF and authorities to ensure legislative compliance.” Sovereign Foods has also issued the following advice, “It is important to ensure that food is cooked to recommended core temperatures and times. In particular, the bacterium is killed during an effective cooking process. “One is also reminded to always maintain the cold chain and keep food at recommended temperatures.” A specific response plan is being finalised by the national Department of Health and its partners. The NMBM environmental health sub-directorate has an outbreak response team, which consists of representatives from the sub-directorate working in conjunction with the Department of Health’s district division and with medical professionals. This team monitors potential cases of listeriosis, monitors and compiles daily statistics on the outbreak and reports back to environmental health, and if needs be, the Department of Health on this. The groups of people most at risk of contracting listeriosis are pregnant women and newborns, the elderly (particularly those who are already sick) and people living with conditions which weaken the immune system (such as cancer, diabetes, HIV and kidney diseases). The most common way that listeriosis can be transmitted is through food, but it can also be transmitted “in utero” (through the womb). The points below are easy-to-follow steps, but will go a long way to help keeping you and your families safe: The most common symptoms of listeriosis are mild, flu-like symptoms, which can be followed by nausea, diarrhoea and abdominal cramps. The more invasive infections could lead to sepsis and meningitis. New infections bring number of confirmed cases in SA to 717 A further 167 people have contracted deadly listeriosis in the past month‚ bringing the total number of confirmed cases in South Africa to 717. It is the worst documented listeriosis outbreak in global history, according to food scientists. In… January 8, 2018 The number of people who contracted potentially fatal listeriosis infections in Nelson Mandela Bay has risen sharply from two to nine, the Eastern Cape Department of Health said today (17/01/18). However, residents have been assured that the city’s tap water is safe to drink. Health superintendent-general Dr Thobile Mbengashe said… January 17, 2018 New cases of listeriosis continue to be diagnosed every week in the Eastern Cape. In the latest case, a three-month-old girl from Libode was diagnosed with the illness. Listeriosis is caused by the bacteria listeria monocytogenes and is found in soil, water and also raw milk and other dairy products… December 28, 2017