New waterworks plan set to help eradicate water hyacinth curse The Gamtoos Irrigation Board (GIB) is forging ahead in the Swartkops River with the removal of vast swathes of alien water hyacinth that deplete the water of oxygen, reducing an important fish breeding habitat. It is an ongoing eco-war as the hyacinth is thriving on industrial and agricultural pollution and successive sewage spills from the overburdened Kelvin Jones Water Treatment Works. In these conditions it takes just 14 days for a raft of the world’s most invasive water weed to double in size. The municipality said yesterday that a multiphase project had been launched to upgrade and expand the works and it should be completed in five years. In the meanwhile, the board is hard at work battling the hyacinth, working with three teams of 12 people and a brief and annual budget of R1.5-million from the Department of Environmental Affairs. Since 2011, these teams have cleared more than 765ha of water hyacinth from the Swartkops, with follow-up work completed on over 2 672ha. Characterised by glossy dark green leaves and lilac flowers, water hyacinth is indigenous to South America. But after being introduced to other countries, it has spread like wildlfire. It was a problem throughout South Africa and in the Eastern Cape the irrigation board was implementing clearing projects on the Nahoon and Mthatha rivers as well as the Swartkops, the board’s area manager, Andrew Knipe, said yesterday. According to the Agricultural Research Council, water hyacinth can suppress biodiversity and obstruct water flow, which may aggravate flooding. It can also interfere with the use of the river for recreation and irrigation, and acts as breeding habitat for mosquitos and in some areas bilharzia snails. In South Africa, blessed with a rich array of estuaries, despite its heavy pollution load the Swartkops is rated highly important in terms of biodiversity and as a winter stop-over for migratory birds and a nursery for marine fish. Knipe said the hyacinth in the Swartkops absorbed oxygen from the water, depleting the amount left over for other river life. “In the Swartkops this is especially a problem for the fish because of the importance of the estuary as a nursery where marine fish come in to breed.” Bio-control – the use of a natural enemy which is propagated and released on the hyacinth – has been tried. But results were not fast enough to combat the plentiful and fast-spreading volumes of hyacinth so, for now, spraying was the best method, he said. “We use an environmentally friendly herbicide which destroys the hyacinth air pods. The plant sinks and, as it decays, the movement of the water breaks it up.” He said the herbicide was harmless to fish, frogs and other river animals and indigenous river plants. Although the clearing work was going well, they were not getting to the root of the problem, he admitted. “We are treating the symptom and not the cause. So long as there is pollution coming into the river, the hyacinth will grow. “But we are working systematically and keeping the populations down to manageable levels. That’s the goal for now.” Knipe’s teams also remove alien trees on the banks of the Swartkops, complementing the work done by department’s Working for Water Programme. The bigger bluegums, Port Jackson and wattle trees are ring-barked while the saplings are felled and herbicide is painted on their stumps. Even after heavy rains and possible leaching of this herbicide into the river it was likewise environmentally friendly and would not harm river life, he said. The team removed felled material from the river zone to ensure that it would not become dangerous debris during a flood, and the piles then rotted into the soil or were used for firewood. Project manager James Jansen said this clearing of aliens on the bank exposed the river to more sunlight, allowing for the faster breakdown of nutrients. “It also increases the run-off, which means more water gets into the rivers.” Rehabilitation of wetlands and removal of plants replenishes dwindling water supplies The authorities are upping the ante against the alien invasion of the Kromme and Kouga river catchments in a bid to free up more water to replenish the drought-stricken dams feeding the Nelson Mandela Bay metro. The two projects,… April 25, 2017 AS AN estuarine angler, I have the immediate choice of four estuaries to fish in and they are no more than an hour's drive from my home. The same goes for my hunting passion. Here in the Eastern Cape, the surrounds of Port Elizabeth, we are so privileged as we… March 14, 2014 E-mail your letter to The Herald THE letter, "Opportunities will flow once we clean up", (January 22) refers. I want to thank Jeff Bratby of the Zwartkops Conservancy for the initiative of getting the UDDI on board in clearing up the unsightly rubbish in and next to the Swartkops River,… January 25, 2013