Police have warned Port Elizabeth landlords that their properties could be forfeited if their tenants are caught using  them to commit crimes. This marks the launch of a new campaign that aims to tighten the noose on criminals using houses and flats as bases to commit crimes. Port Elizabeth police announced today (23/01/18) that their new approach would see drug dens, shebeens and any other crime havens targeted. The campaign is spearheaded by newly appointed Mount Road Cluster commander Major-General Thembisile Patekile, who announced that some plans were already afoot to seize properties used in criminal activities. Patekile, an advocate who took up his new  post earlier this month, vowed to strategically clamp down on crime in the Bay. He warned landlords and home owners that efforts would be made to seize houses that were used for criminal activity. “We will work with the necessary authorities and evict the tenants and then take the property from the owner,” he added. Not only would the tenants be arrested in such cases, but the property would also be seized under the Prevention of Organised Crime Act (Poca). The  act allows the state to seize assets regarded as the proceeds of crime or used to commit a crime, including properties and cars. State and RDP houses used in a crime could also be seized, Patekile said.  Experienced new top cop in town vows to clean up streets There is a new sheriff in town and he has vowed to take back the streets and tackle criminals and gangs head-on with a zero-tolerance approach. Veteran police officer Major-General Thembisile Patekile, 56, took up his new post as… January 12, 2018 Cops losing battle as drug dealers, criminals and squatters take over, reports Gareth Wilson and Riaan Marais. THE stench is discernable before you even enter the building. Once inside, drug paraphernalia, rats, broken electronics, smashed windows and litter greet you. These are the buildings in Central used as hideouts for criminals, prostitutes… January 25, 2016 Undercover cops deployed in Central to track dealers A SPECIALIST drug and robbery task team has been set up to tackle drug lords fuelling the criminal underworld in Nelson Mandela Bay. This was announced by police yesterday, as part of a strategy to crack down on crime hot-spot areas. The… August 11, 2015