Community service is on the cards for three young men who nicked a National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) pink luminous rescue buoy from a Jeffreys Bay beach nearly two weeks ago. In addition, according to NSRI national spokesman Craig Lambinon, the men – who had simultaneously removed the buoy’s mounting pole and backing board mount which carried important rescue-related information – have been part of the effort to reinstall it. This has emerged after the men and the buoy – which is part of an extensive campaign to place the buoys for both public and emergency worker use at beaches around the country – were finally tracked down late last week. The early morning theft at The Point beach had been captured on CCTV cameras and the footage, which included the culprits driving away in an Eastern Cape registered vehicle, was then distributed to media houses as part of an effort to trace the rescue equipment. “After hours of investigation by unpaid volunteers, the buoy has been located and returned to the beach,” Lambinon said. He said that the owner of the vehicle had not been involved or aware of the theft. “The NSRI was involved in discussions with the three young men, their parents, the owner of the car and legal guidance was offered by the authorities,” Lambinon said. “All parties have apologised and expressed due remorse. “It has been agreed that a period of community service will follow under the guidance of the authorities.”  An appeal by the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) for the public to take ownership of its Pink Rescue Flotation Buoy campaign was taken a bit too literally in Jeffreys Bay last week when a brazen group of youths, thought to be from Port Elizabeth, made off with one of… January 5, 2018 Sea rescuers had to scramble on Tuesday morning to aid a 1-metre Humpback whale that was entangled in rope‚ fishing lines and floatation buoys offshore of Noordhoek beach in Port Elizabeth in the Eastern Cape. Volunteers from the South African Whale Disentanglement Network (SAWDN) and members of the National Sea… August 9, 2016 People must heed the closure of southern Cape beaches because of shark sightings, the National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) urged yesterday. Municipal authorities have closed beaches between Maoli Beach‚ Sedgefield and Brenton-on-Sea because many sharks have been spotted. The closures had taken effect from Tuesday, NSRI Knysna station commander Jerome… December 29, 2016