The body of three-year-old Latoya Gwam is to be transported to the Eastern Cape for burial, following a prayer service Friday – 19 days after the toddler died under controversial circumstances. Her mother‚ Nontombi Gwam‚ was admitted to hospital this week after trying to commit suicide by ingesting poison‚ prophet Paseka Motsoeneng said. Latoya died on Christmas Eve after she was taken to Motsoeneng’s Incredible Happenings Ministry in Katlehong after falling ill. There were conflicting accounts of whether she died at Motsoeneng’s church or in an ambulance summoned to take her to hospital. Gauteng Health MEC Gwen Ramokgopa said there would be a thorough investigation into the death of the child. Motsoeneng‚ also known as Pastor Mboro‚ said Latoya’s body was still in Gauteng Friday morning. “We will have a prayer . . . and then leave with the family to go to the Eastern Cape‚” he said. Latoya was not buried as planned last weekend because her family did not have the funds to transport her body to the Eastern Cape, and cover all of the funeral costs there. Gwam recounted previously how she had taken Latoya to Daveyton Main Clinic, where she claimed she was unable to find appropriate help. She then went to a private doctor‚ where her daughter was put on a drip. Later‚ when Latoya became restless‚ she took her to the church. It was there where the pastor and paramedics became involved in an argument over the child‚ who died shortly afterwards. – TimesLIVE Nontombi Gwam‚ mother of three-year-old Latoya who died controversially on Christmas Eve in Ekurhuleni‚ says the toddler was a gift from God. Gwam held a media briefing at her home in Daveyton‚ Ekurhuleni‚ yesterday about the loss of her child. “When I gave birth to her, I held her in… January 4, 2018 The family of a toddler who died as medical help was sought on Christmas Eve in Ekurhuleni has called on parliament to investigate the circumstances of her death. Ayanda Klaas‚ uncle of Latoya Gwam‚ 3, said at her memorial service in Katlehong yesterday: “We are very hurt. This needs to… January 5, 2018 The city of Ekurhuleni has launched an investigation into the death of a three-year-old girl and the alleged assault of a paramedic at the Incredible Happenings church in Katlehong on December 24‚ the municipality said on Monday. Controversial pastor Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng denies assaulting one of the paramedics after they… January 2, 2018