Whatever decision ANC takes, president will not be humiliated, says Ramaphosa The issue of recalling President Jacob Zuma is a delicate matter, newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said in a television broadcast at the weekend. He told broadcaster eNCA that whatever decision the party’s newly elected national executive committee (NEC) took, Zuma would not be humiliated. Ramaphosa said rumours of Zuma’s impending recall were the talk of the town. “This issue is being raised by everyone. “People are talking about it and I am saying we should never, ever humiliate President Zuma,” he said. “That is one thing that we are very clear on. He should not be humiliated, he is a deployee of the ANC.” Shying away from weekend reports suggesting that Zuma was willing to resign under his own terms, including that ANC MP Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma take over as the country’s interim president, Ramaphosa said: “The leadership of the ANC will deal with all matters in the interest of the people of South Africa – be it whoever else’s deployment, be it President Zuma’s deployment or be it my deployment. “It should always be how do we advance the interests of South Africa and not how we advance the interests of a particular individual. “Leave that matter there, it is a matter that is delicate that has to be addressed taking into account the interests of the people of South Africa.” Regarding allegations of state capture, Ramaphosa said the NPA should immediately prosecute those implicated instead of waiting for the findings of the commission of inquiry into state capture, which would be headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo. Ramaphosa said the commission would take a long time to conclude its work, hence the NPA should begin its work now. A scandal-prone Zuma, who has limped from one corruption scandal to another during his tenure, was booed multiple times at the party’s 106th birthday celebrations in East London at the weekend. “This issue of having a different president of the ANC and a different president of the country is a very delicate matter and could be seen by others as having two centres of power, but we don’t see it in that regard,” Ramaphosa said. “There is only one centre of power, which is the ANC. President Zuma is a deployee of the ANC. We should never have a situation where we subject any of the deployees of the ANC to humiliation because by doing we so are saying the ANC should itself be humiliated.” Yesterday, the Presidency denied reports that Zuma had demanded during a meeting last week with Ramaphosa that Dlamini-Zuma be appointed as the country’s deputy president. “No such discussion has taken place and no such demand has been made anywhere by President Zuma‚” it said. The Presidency said it had noted several distortions in media reports in relation to the meeting held between Zuma and Ramaphosa on January 7 at Dr John Langalibalele Dube residence in Durban. “The principals held their first formal meeting following the assumption of office by the deputy president as president of the ANC. “They discussed several issues, updating each other on matters in both government and the governing party. “The two leaders met alone‚ and reports of other leaders being present are false. “Among issues discussed‚ President Zuma briefed Deputy President Ramaphosa on his plans to institute a commission of inquiry into state capture.” It said Zuma and Ramaphosa had resolved to hold regular meetings. – Additional reporting by TimesLIVE Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says the newly elected president of the African National Congress (ANC)‚ Cyril Ramaphosa‚ does not have what it takes to resurrect the embattled party. He also says there is an immunity offer under discussion for Jacob Zuma to leave the SA presidency ahead… January 9, 2018 Former Democratic Alliance parliamentary leader Lindiwe Mazibuko has said she supported ANC presidential hopeful Cyril Ramaphosa to lead the governing party. Speaking at a panel discussion on Tuesday on the role of business in current South Africa‚ Mazibuko explained why it would be better for Ramaphosa to win the ANC… October 10, 2017 There are no saints in this extremely dirty war that’s unfolding within the ANC. Many, such as former president Kgalema Motlanthe, cling onto the vain hope that the “good guys” will set the party right, but they are wrong. That sort of naive hope and behaviour mimics exactly what happened… September 25, 2017