Several shots fired in Blunden eviction drama An Overbaakens man described yesterday how he was shot by well-known businessman Shawn Blunden after an argument about the eviction of his daughter from a Walmer Heights house. Deon Williams told the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court that Blunden, the co-founder and chief executive of Blunden Coach Tours, fired twice at him as he was running backwards and one of the bullets went through his stomach.The house at 66 Beethoven Street is owned by a family trust headed by trustees Marlene, Wesley and Marina Blunden, Shawn’s sister, son and mother respectively. Williams’s daughter, Kaylin, was living at the house with his ex-wife Cheryl, who is also Blunden’s sister and one of a family of five siblings. The June 20 2015 incident came amid simmering tension over the inheritance left by family patriarch George Blunden, with Kaylin arguing that she and her mother had been cheated while the rest of the family accused them of scrounging for money that did not belong to them at the instigation of Williams. Blunden has pleaded not guilty to the attempted murder of Williams and his niece, saying the shots went off as Williams tried to wrestle his pistol away from him. After previous testimony, Kaylin was tackled by the defence counsel over her conflicting account of how the men had struggled over the pistol but then how her uncle allegedly deliberately aimed and fired a shot at her father. She also could not account for how one shot went through a toaster behind Blunden. Yesterday, Williams described a first shot which, he said, went off as Blunden reached for the pistol on his hip. He said he had parked his bakkie and run into the house after a phone call from Kaylin begging him to come as she was being evicted. He said he confronted Blunden. “The accused said, ‘f**k off out of my house’. His right hand went to his side and a shot went off.” Williams said he was back-pedalling when Blunden unholstered the weapon and fired again. “He followed me with his gun and fired two more shots. I felt something and . . . saw I had been hit.” Blunden then allegedly pointed his pistol at Williams again, at which point, Williams said, he grabbed Marlene, who was also in the house. “I was using her as a human shield. [Blunden] was smiling. He went down on one knee pointing his gun at me. “Then I saw Kaylin come up behind him and take one of her mother’s marble statues and hit him on the head.” Williams said Blunden had been cut by the blow but had recovered his balance, when Williams collapsed from his wound. One of his kidneys was removed during a subsequent operation. The case was postponed to February 14. A young medical student described yesterday how she hit prominent Port Elizabeth businessman Shawn Blunden over the head with a marble statue to try to protect her father, who had been shot in the abdomen at the family’s Walmer Heights home. With the gun then pointed at her, Kaylin Williams, 27,… February 3, 2017 TRANSPORT tycoon and attempted murder accused Shawn Blunden is involved in a new 100% black-owned start-up company to operate in the public passenger transport sector of the Eastern Cape. The company, Star of Azania (SOA), was launched in Port Elizabeth yesterday after lengthy struggles to obtain funding for the joint… July 16, 2015 A VIOLENT family dispute involving prominent businessman Shaun Blunden which almost turned fatal allegedly revolved around his late father’s estate, it emerged yesterday. Claims of violent threats, which ended with one of those involved being critically wounded after he was shot, came to light when attempted murder accused Blunden –… July 1, 2015