With the matric results due for release this week‚ academic expert Fathima Razack has urged those who do not achieve their desired outcomes not to despair. Razack‚ head of programme in the faculty of commerce at The Independent Institute of Education‚ South Africa’s largest private higher education provider‚ said parents and matriculants should not panic if the results were disappointing. She said below-par matric results did not have to mean giving up on dreams and aspirations. “While it might feel like the end of the world at the moment‚ clear heads and a pragmatic approach are required to make the right decisions for the future,” Razack said. “It is particularly important for adults to manage their response‚ as their emotional state could impact on the resilience of pupils in the wake of the release of results. “Although parents and guardians may feel deeply disappointed‚ they should know that their first words and reactions may leave a lasting impact. “They should take stock and consider their unified position so that the energy can be focused on the pupils and their next steps.” She said options open to pupils who failed but were determined to earn their National Senior Certificate included: Razack said pupils who passed but did not achieve the marks needed to study for a degree had the following options: “Each university and private higher education provider sets its own minimum criteria‚ and these requirements vary between institutions,” she said. “That means it may not be necessary to repeat Grade 12 or rewrite a subject‚ as there could be alternatives available in your chosen field of study.” – TimesLIVE matric via distance The anxious day for the release of 2016 matric results has finally arrived and in thousands of homes across South Africa the past holiday will have been a little more stressful than usual, particularly where there has been concern over a pupil’s performance. An education authority says it is very… January 4, 2017 Education minister bombarded with questions at Matric Second Chance roadshow If the Department of Basic Education was efficient and did its job right the first time around, there would not be a need for a Matric Second Chance programme. This was the view of parents and young people at the… May 15, 2017 It's almost time for Grade 9 pupils to select subjects they want to take from next year until they write their final matric exams. While making the call is an exciting exercise for some, others struggle with the commitment, especially when they are not yet sure what they want to… April 19, 2017