Self sacrifice, determination and dedication culminated to overwhelming joy for the Eastern Cape Provinces top three matriculants for 2017 . They were lauded at a glamorous gala evening in East London Friday night. Mphoentle Piliso of Cofimvaba senior secondary school, Abigail Sieberhagen of Pearson High School and Reamohetse Mofitiso of Lehana Senior Secondary School claimed the podium as they were awarded for their excellent work. The trio who all got seven A symbols on their final report all said sacrificing their sleep, curbing television and early morning study sessions paid off when they each walked off with a laptop, R80 000 scholarship and bragging rights as the top 3 achievers in the province. Mofitiso said: “It is an amazing feeling, to know that everything I did and gave up to achieve this award is paying off. “I intend on keeping this momentum for my studies at UCT this year. And if anything this award and our achievement proves that with self sacrifice and hard work you can achieve anything regardless of your situation.” Despite a slight improvement in the Eastern Cape's 2014 matric pass rate, it remained the worst performing province with three schools recording a zero percent pass. Education MEC Mandla Makupula said Impey Siwisa High School in Fort Beaufort's two matric pupils failed their exams. According to reports, Impey Siwisa received… January 6, 2015 THERE were heaps of mixed emotions today when thousands of matrics arrived at their respective schools in Nelson Mandela Bay to get their exam results. Hundreds of successful matrics failed to contain their excitement as they cried, laughed and joked about their results in Port Elizabeth’s northern areas. Zimkhitha Zibanda,… January 6, 2016 Top district in Eastern Cape, with most distinctions, in 2017 matric results Education MEC Mandla Makupula yesterday named Nelson Mandela Bay the Eastern Cape’s best-performing district for 2017, succeeding in drastically improving the matric pass rate by almost 10 percentage points after being placed ninth in the province the previous… January 6, 2018