A near 10 hour hostage situation on a farm outside Mossel Bay was resolved on Sunday night after a man had held his parents and brother hostage. Police spokesman Captain Malcolm Pojie said members of the police task force managed to overpower the 39-year-old suspect at around 6.30pm. The man, who will remain in custody until he appears in court soon, was held on charges of attempted murder and malicious damage to property. Pojie said more charges could be added later. Earlier, Pojie said the three family members were taken to a safe place immediately after they were released. At about 6pm on Sunday night, police were still trying to talk to the man on the farm in Brandwag, situated between Hartenbos and Klein Brak. Police were informed about the hostage situation at about 9am and responded immediately. Pojie said the man, who was armed with high-calibre weapons, had fired a volley of shots at police and emergency services vehicles at the scene and a case of attempted murder had been opened as a result. Asked what weapons the man was using, Pojie said: “What we do know is that he has access to various calibre weapons.” The reasons for the hostage were still unknown. Thirty people have been arrested for public violence and looting shops during protests in Kwanonqaba in Mossel Bay, Western Cape police said on Wednesday (13/08/2014). The protest was apparently over service delivery and electricity in the area, and the 30 people were arrested on Tuesday and Wednesday, Captain Malcolm Pojie… August 13, 2014 Protesters in Kwanonqaba in Mossel Bay threw stones at motorists during a protest over electricity connections on Thursday morning (14/08/2014), Western Cape police said. "There were sporadic incidents of stone throwing, but we intervened and it has calmed down now," said Captain Malcolm Pojie. "There is police visibility in the… August 14, 2014 The organisers of the Klein Karoo Nasionale Kunstefees (KKNK) say they are waiting for the final reports on an incident which led to the death of a nine-year-old boy. The boy died in hospital on Sunday after being injured on Friday at the festival‚ held in Oudtshoorn in the Western… April 17, 2017