Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa leads a sizeable delegation to the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, beginning tomorrow. As he jets off, he will do so perked up by political developments at home. Among these have been the first considered steps to dismantle the shadow state built up by President Jacob Zuma during his terms. Prosecutors have already fired off the first in a batch of court applications to preserve – and recover – the ill-gotten billions looted by Zuma’s state-capture hydra. These court orders are hopefully, as has been suggested, the precursors to criminal charges. Not taking any chances, officials are skimming the pond scum as well with a targeted purge of Zuma’s thugs and grovellers. Those recently dispatched include police pair Berning Ntlemeza and Richard Mdluli, along with Eskom’s Anoj Singh and Koko Matshela. That Zuma’s term is winding down apace has helped spur this sudden prosecutorial ardour, as much as Ramaphosa’s consolidation of power over key ANC structures after this weekend’s national executive committee meeting. The wind is in Ramaphosa’s sails. So on to Davos, which has its critics but for now remains a key stop on the global circuit and a good place for Ramaphosa to start repairing our battered image. Eskom tops the list. Government exposure to Eskom debt is about R500-billion and some of it falls due soon. The power utility is experiencing another cash squeeze and needs considerable stimulus fast. Problem is, there is dwindling probability of further state bailouts. Too, Eskom has till the end of this month to publish its interim financials. Failure could see the JSE suspend trading in its bonds. Lenders are already turning off the funding taps. Eskom is in major crisis and our collective fortunes are tied to its fate. In the long term it needs significant reform. Right now it needs an urgent rescue plan to keep the lights on. Replacing the bad apples is a start but the clock is ticking. Ramaphosa knows this, not only for Eskom’s sake but for his own window of opportunity. But Ramaphosa reluctant to confirm he will stand until officially nominated The leadership battle for the ANC’s presidency has begun, with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa unofficially kicking off his bid to lead the party after its December elective conference yesterday. Sharing the stage with him was, among others, former deputy… April 24, 2017 Where do the tumultuous political and legal events of the past two weeks leave Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa, the man seemingly destined to be the political bridesmaid, never the bride? Ramaphosa, who may reasonably be called one of the midwives of the constitution so splendidly upheld this week by Chief… April 5, 2016 Whatever decision ANC takes, president will not be humiliated, says Ramaphosa The issue of recalling President Jacob Zuma is a delicate matter, newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said in a television broadcast at the weekend. He told broadcaster eNCA that whatever decision the party’s newly elected national executive committee… January 15, 2018