A man was arrested in a bloodsmeared vehicle for alleged drunken driving early yesterday morning – and then found to have allegedly raped a Port Elizabeth woman. Metro Police officials were alerted after 6am that a vehicle was parked in Humewood Road and, on investigation, arrested him for driving under the influence of alcohol. When the woman later reported the alleged rape, the police realised that the description of the suspect and the vehicle mirrored that of the alleged drunken driver. Municipal executive director for safety and security Keith Meyer said officers had reacted to a report about a stationary vehicle in the road between Perrot Road and Walmer Boulevard. “Upon arrival, they found the engine of the vehicle running and the man in the driver’s seat appeared to be under the influence of alcohol. “A breathalyser test confirmed his intoxication. “The Metro Police officers spotted blood stains on the vehicle and also discovered bloodied clothes and items. “The scene was secured and the South African Police Services forensic team was called out. “The driver of the vehicle was arrested by the Metro Police for being under the influence of alcohol and was taken to Humewood SAPS, where he was detained,” he said. The suspect is expected to appear in court today. A SOZZLED traffic officer caused a scene at a house in Lovemore Heights, Port Elizabeth, on Saturday when he pulled up, sirens blaring, and demanded to speak to the owner. According to the bemused homeowner, the man reeked of alcohol. “He was stupid drunk, p***ed as a skunk,” the McCallum… April 25, 2016 THE Motherwell police are continuing with their no- nonsense approach in the fight against crime. During the week of June 17 to 24 they had roadblocks and stop-and-search operations in the area. January 25, 2014 Three men were arrested after they allegedly hijacked a vehicle in KwaNobuhle this morning. The arrest came after the hijacked vehicle, with four suspects inside, overturned during a police chase in San Souci Road, Despatch. The four suspects hijacked a black VW Polo at the Fan Park in Mqolomba Road,… December 14, 2015