Police swooped on several drug dens and made a number of arrests on drug-related charges in Uitenhage and Joubertina at the weekend. At 9am on Saturday, a 55-yearold man was arrested in Hillwacht Road, Kabah, Uitenhage. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said police searched the premises and found 10 dagga plants, wrapped dagga and more than R1 000 in cash. The man was detained and charged with dealing in dagga. Later in the day, at about 1.45pm, a second man, 53, was arrested in Grompou Road, Rosedale, on a charge of dealing in mandrax after he was allegedly found in possession of 40 mandrax tablets and dagga worth more than R3 000. Also on Saturday, Humansdorp police arrested a 58-year-old woman on charges of illegal possession of drugs. Swart said police had been tipped off about a vehicle which, after being spotted in town, was pulled over and searched. Among the drugs confiscated were 25 mandrax tablets valued at R800, 7g of tik valued at R900 and some dagga. Friday was also a busy day for police in the area as police effected more drug-related arrests. A 48-year-old man was arrested, also in Hillwacht Road, after he was allegedly found in possession of three bags of dagga, dagga trees, dagga bankies and cash with an estimated value of R4 000. Swart said the man was detained on a charge of dealing in dagga. Later on Friday evening, a residence in Mooimeisie Street, Rosedale, was searched and police discovered a cache of dagga and mandrax with an estimated value of more than R3 000. Swart said no arrests had been made in this incident yet. Also on Friday evening, Joubertina SAPS arrested a 35year-old man in Omega Street, Ravinia after a tip-off. Swart said the man was found with mandrax tablets with an estimated street value of R1 500. She said 10 more arrests had been made at stations in the cluster for the illegal possession of smaller quantities of drugs. A man was arrested with mandrax worth more than R400000 in the Durban Street taxi rank in Uitenhage. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said the 29-year old was arrested at about 1pm on Friday. with 8004 tablets. He is expected to appear in the Uitenhage Magistrate's Court on a charge… August 5, 2016 A 33-year-old Port Elizabeth man from Kwazakhele was arrested earlier today after police found about R1.4 Million worth of mandrax inside his car. According to police, the man, who authorities are not naming until he appears in court, had been on their “radar” for some time. National Hawks spokesman Lieutenant… December 3, 2015 Police have seized large amounts of cash and mandrax tablets, valued at R82 000, in KwaNobuhle, Uitenhage during Operation Fiela earlier this month. On 22 August police obtained search warrants for several identified drug spots in KwaNobuhle. During the search, a 31 year old man in Oscar Mpeta Street, was… August 25, 2015