More than 24 hours after a deadly Shosholoza Meyl train accident‚ emergency services were combing the scene near Kroonstad in the Free State to retrieve passengers’ remains from the mangled wreckage. Officials were still battling on Friday to determine exactly how many people had died. The death toll released on Thursday was as high as 20. But Free State police spokesman Brigadier Motantsi Makhele said that statistic could still change. “Forensic work is being done on the remains taken out of the train to determine their origin‚” he said. “Only once that work is done can we confirm a body count.” Workers from Transnet and the Passenger Rail Agency of SA (Prasa) arrived early on Friday morning to begin the arduous task of clearing the scene. Police forensic investigators have an equally difficult task of sifting through the chaos to document not only the number of deaths‚ but also any evidence that could point to the cause of the collision. Officials told the media on Thursday that the driver of a truck had tried to cross the railway too late as the train approached‚ but police are adamant that no blame will be apportioned until the scene is properly assessed and handed over to prosecutors for a decision. Meanwhile‚ away from the somber scene of forensic pathologists‚ workers were cutting sections of the railway line so that heavy machinery could gain access to the eight overturned and smashed carriages. – TimesLIVE Investigators from the Railway Safety Regulator were back on the scene on Friday morning of the train accident near Kroonstad that killed 18 people. The accident occurred on Thursday when a Shosholoza Meyl train en route from Port Elizabeth to Johannesburg crashed into a truck that had failed to stop… January 5, 2018 Officials still hope figure will be lower than last year The death toll on Eastern Cape roads has climbed to 79, with at least 24 people killed over the Christmas weekend. The deaths occurred in 187 crashes between December 1 and Monday. Between December 1 last year and January 5, 278… December 28, 2016 By Julie Gordon LAC-MEGANTIC - Residents of the town of Lac-Megantic in Quebec were coming to grips on Thursday (11/07/2013) with the reality that 50 of their own were most likely dead in the aftermath of the worst railway disaster in North American in more than two decades. Five days… July 11, 2013