The Constitutional Court-mandated inquiry into whether Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini should be held personally liable for the crisis at the SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) gets under way on Monday. The inquiry follows a Constitutional Court order that Dlamini be joined to the court matter‚ which was brought by the Centre of Applied Legal Studies on behalf of the Black Sash rights group‚ in her personal capacity. It is understood the inquiry will start with former Sassa CEO Thokozani Magwaza’s affidavit. In an affidavit to the court last year‚ Magwaza accused Dlamini of lying about her involvement in the crisis and about the so-called work streams. The Constitutional Court ordered in March 2017 that Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) continue to pay grants for 12 months‚ after it was found Sassa could not take over distribution‚ despite previously saying it could. In her affidavit‚ Dlamini blamed the Sassa fiasco on the agency’s officials‚ specifically Magwaza. This week’s inquiry will be led by Judge Bernard Ngoepe. Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini has fired one of her special advisers, Sipho Shezi. Shezi confirmed yesterday that he was informed in a letter, delivered on Friday, that his services were no longer needed. Shezi said no reasons were given for dismissing him, adding he was fine with that. "I… April 12, 2017 An inquiry into whether Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini should be held personally liable for the social grants debacle will kick off in January. The Constitutional Court earlier this year ordered that an inquiry be established to set out Dlamini’s roles and responsibilities as social development minister. The court found… November 1, 2017 Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini “had known since July 2015 of inadequacies in the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) to pay grant recipients on its own”. Furthermore‚ “Dlamini was in control of the process of Sassa taking over grant payments”. She appointed individuals who reported directly to her. Sassa… April 8, 2017