A Port Elizabeth jewellery designer and crafter has assembled a collective of creatives for a new market which starts today in the Baakens Valley. Dubbed Foong’s Friday and Friends Market, Annelize Botha said the first open day would be from 2pm to 8pm and run at Chicky’s Yard in Ellis Street. It will overlap with the popular Food Truck Friday at the same venue today, which is running from 4pm onwards in the valley but is a separate event. “I had the idea about 14 months ago to start a ‘boutique’ market to showcase some of the abundant local talent that we have in our Bay,” Botha said. “I wanted to focus on craft as there is no dedicated market for craft only that is 100% handmade with no copies or imports. “Each of the businesses at the market are owner-operated, which also provides a wonderful opportunity for the artisans to chat about any special requests or orders that the attendees may have.” She said the biggest challenge was to find a venue that was weather-proof and available on a weekly basis and it was only in December when she shared her idea with restaurateur and entrepreneur Grant Foong that the venue of Chicky’s Yard became an option. “We were fortunate to host our first event on December 23. He is the most wonderful person to deal with and has added so much value to our team,” Botha said of Foong. The well-known restaurateur opens a pop-up Chinese food takeaway on selected Fridays. Market-goers will be able to browse the crafts section and then pick up a meal either at Foong’s or at one of the 20 food trucks that will be parked next to the Baakens River. “We will be introducing the ‘full’ team at our second event, and we believe that this boutique market will go from strength to strength given all the interest and support we have received this year,” Botha said. The crafters are: ý Arthouse Production – Morris Luiters; Botha said although the Friends were fully booked for today, the group would always reserve two places to introduce two new entrepreneurial artisans at every event. “We know how important it is to give back and encourage other artisans to live their dreams.” Port Elizabeth’s fifth annual Art Meander starts on Friday, October 27 at Art on Target and wend its colourful way through the Baakens Valley and out to Schoenmakerskop over three days. Its founder, Cindy Oberholzer, who describes herself as an amateur artist, hopes this inside view of the creative process… October 23, 2017 A PROMINENT South African rock singer plans to book into rehab following a series of violent drink-fuelled incidents which will see him face assault and malicious damage to property charges. Former Mean Mr Mustard lead singer Andries Botha was set to perform at popular Plettenberg Bay entertainment venue The Barn… January 5, 2016 Set in the heart of Port Elizabeth’s Baakens Valley, the increasingly popular Baakens Food Truck Friday hits the streets again this coming weekend on February 10. This community event has no entry fee, is open to the public at 4pm and closes at 9pm. The monthly night market rounds up… February 7, 2017