Politicians‚ poets‚ musicians‚ friends and family gathered in the Johannesburg City Hall yesterday for the state memorial service for laureate poet and political activist Professor Keorapetse Kgositsile‚ affectionately known as “Bra Willie”. In a moving message of condolence‚ Sebiletso Mokone-Matabane‚ a friend who met Kgositsile in the 1970s‚ said she would remember him as a man who had clarity of thought. “I will miss his strength of mind‚ infectious laughter‚ and smile. He truly was one of a kind,” she said. Mokone-Matabane reminisced about how Kgositsile would say: “I don’t have time for fools.” In his eulogy‚ ANC Gauteng provincial committee member Parks Tau compared Kgositsile’s “epic poetry” to the works of Pablo Neruda of Chile and Jose Marti of Cuba. University of Johannesburg vice-chancellor Professor Tshilidzi Marwala said a hall at the institution would be named after Kgositsile. Marwala said Kgositsile had spent a great deal of time sharing his ideas with UJ students. Poetry by the likes of Lebo Mashile and Sello Maake Ka-Ncube contributed to a solemn and yet jovial mood in a hall full of iconic contributors to arts and culture‚ and intelligentsia. Kgositsile’s 1971 poetry anthology My Name is Africa is one of his most influential works. He was South Africa’s only national poet laureate. Kgositsile died in Johannesburg on January 3 at the age of 79 after a short illness. The “people’s poet” is survived by his wife‚ Baby Dorcas Kgositsile‚ seven children and several grandchildren. He will be buried on Tuesday in Marks Park in Emmarentia. President Jacob Zuma and parliament have joined many South Africans in paying tribute to poet and political activist Professor Keorapetse William Kgositsile‚ popularly known as Bra Willie. Kgositsile‚ who was South Africa’s first National Poet Laureate and a recipient of the National Order of Ikhamanga for his contribution in the… January 4, 2018 The PE Opera House is reintroducing its Poetry Tuesdays, with Xhosa artist Siyabonga “Gqobhoz’imbawula” Ngcai on stage at 6pm today. Ngcai, better known as Gqobhoz’imbawula, is an ambitious poet, story teller, songwriter, performing artist, culture and language activist, and an architectural technologist by profession. The Mthatha born-and-raised poet says he… June 6, 2017 None of the service providers for The Speaker’s Ball‚ a post-Sona event hosted by National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete‚ has been paid in full, according to the DA. Some had not received any payment for the event held at a five-star Camps Bay hotel last month, DA chief whip John Steenhuisen… March 13, 2017