The New Year is hailed with resolutions to beat the festive bulge, cure the budget hangover and visit the gym. But, often by February or even by late January, unhealthy habits creep back in as stress once again starts taking its toll. According to last year’s Profmed Stress Index, most South African professionals listed work (45.45%) and finances (23.07%) as their two main causes of stress. Sadly, this year does not show any sign of letting up. Unfortunately for South Africans, the current economic conditions are set to endure as local and global uncertainty continues to thwart the country’s economic development. This doesn’t bode well for stress levels and has a direct impact on health. “Stress, sometimes called the silent killer, can exacerbate current chronic conditions and make professionals more susceptible to chronic diseases like high blood pressure and diabetes,” healthcare scheme for South African professionals Profmed CEO Graham Anderson says. He notes that managing stress is more important. But how do professionals include healthy habits in high performance environments? “It’s about incremental changes and a measured approach to overindulgence,” Anderson says. “The overindulgence from the festive season may make it slightly more difficult to get into a routine, but by making one new healthy choice a day, the transition to becoming healthier and happier will be more manageable and sustainable. “Simple changes like adding a little extra onto a credit card payment, opting for water instead of coffee, or taking the stairs are all steps that can be taken.” Anderson suggests these “Top Five” healthy habits to pick up: Top five healthy foods you should eat more of: Top five easy exercises to try at home: Top five tips to cope with stress: More stress about health than money – study IN THE month before President Jacob Zuma started playing musical chairs with the country’s finance ministers, a survey done by Profmed showed that South African professionals were stressing about health more than money. In the medical aid’s annual Stress Survey, conducted among… December 17, 2015 One in three South Africans are now deemed obese‚ making the country’s population the most obese nation in sub-Saharan Africa‚ according to Graham Anderson‚ Principal Officer and CEO of medical aid Profmed. The World Health Organisation’s (WHO) 2014 Global Status Report notes that obesity around the world has doubled since… June 22, 2015 SOUTH Africa's graduate professionals are more stressed by their families than any other reason, including financial commitments according to a recent survey. The research, conducted on nearly 3000 of Profmed's graduate professional members reveals high levels of stress facing this demographic. Profmed CEO Graham Anderson said the firm's Stress Index… December 4, 2014