Chippa United are ready to knuckle down and start raking in their three-point hauls, coach Teboho Moloi said. The Chilli Boys played to yet another draw, a 1-1 stalemate with Maritzburg United in their Absa Premiership clash at the Harry Gwala Stadium in Pietermaritzburg on Friday. Chippa came from behind to score an equaliser through Mxolisi Machuphu in the 71st minute to secure a point on the road. They missed out on an extra two points away from home when James Okwuosa failed to convert a penalty. With just 12 matches remaining, Moloi will need to start cracking the whip in striving to achieve the team’s end goal of finishing in the top four. The 10th draw of the season sees the Port Elizabeth team maintain their spot in the top half of the log, in eighth position. “We might have missed a penalty but I believe we gave it our all,” Moloi said. “But that was an extremely difficult game for us. A point from Maritzburg will definitely take us a long way. “I believe this is one of the good teams in the PSL as they have beaten Free State Stars to consolidate their position in the top half of the log. “It was not by chance that they were able to sit among big teams at the top during the first half of the season.” Moloi has hailed his team’s defence and said it was a strength that set them aside from other teams. He is hoping it will carry them through to finishing the season higher up on the log. “We are probably among the best three teams in the league at keeping good defence. “When I arrived at the club last year, I know we were leaking goals from all directions but we have been working really hard to turn things around. “I have been telling my players to maintain the mindset of holding teams tight in the defensive lines and to try to change our conversion rate.” Chippa’s next match is against Platinum Stars at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Sunday. Chippa United caretaker coach Teboho Moloi is not too concerned about the team’s lack of wins as long as they remain unbeaten. Moloi said this after the Chilli Boys played to their fourth consecutive draw, a 1-1 stalemate against Golden Arrows at the weekend. This means Chippa have not won… October 2, 2017 Team’s morale intact despite defeat to Polokwane in hard-fought home game Chippa United’s morale is still intact despite their Absa Premiership 1-0 loss to Polokwane City at the Nelson Mandela Bay in Port Elizabeth Stadium on Saturday, coach Teboho Moloi said. A late penalty by hard-running City striker Rodney Ramagalela… December 18, 2017 Chippa United have appointed Teboho Moloi as caretaker coach to replace the fired Dan Malesela‚ the Premier Soccer League club announced on Thursday. “We confirm Teboho Moloi as caretaker coach‚ effective immediately...‚” the club said on their official Twitter account. The former Orlando Pirates long-time assistant coach first joined the… September 14, 2017