A plane with 168 people aboard skidded off a runway onto a seaside cliff after landing at an airport in northern Turkey at the weekend. But no one was injured, in what one passenger called a miracle. There were pregnant women and children on board, passengers said. The Pegasus Airlines flight had taken off smoothly from the capital Ankara bound for Trabzon, where the accident occurred as the jet was landing late on Saturday. Dramatic images from CNN Turk broadcaster showed the plane lying on the cliffside, its nose just metres from the waters of the Black Sea and its wheels stuck in mud. “There was panic, people shouting, screaming,” one of the passengers, Fatma Gordu, said. “When they told us to leave from the rear exit, everyone tried to push ahead. It was a terrible situation.” She said they could smell fuel and feared that a fire would break out. “We were scared,” she said. Yuksel Gordu said it was a miracle that they were safe. “We could have burnt, the plane could have exploded, we could have fallen into the sea,” she said. Images from a news agency showed smoke emanating from the trapped plane and an engine that appeared to have fallen into the water. Pegasus Airlines confirmed yesterday there were no injuries among the 162 passengers, two pilots and four flight attendants. The cause of the incident was unknown, but a probe is under way. The Trabzon public prosecutor has launched a separate criminal probe. The airport was temporarily shut before reopening early yesterday, while an operation to remove the jet was continuing. Traumatised PE passengers tell how Boeing 737’s landing gear failed IN a near-disaster, 94 traumatised passengers including a prominent Nelson Mandela Bay city official, landed on a wing and a prayer at OR Tambo International Airport yesterday after the aircraft’s landing gear failed, causing the aircraft to careen wildly before… October 27, 2015 AN investigation into a narrowly averted collision between two passenger planes at the Port Elizabeth Airport three months ago has still not been finalised. The Air Traffic and Navigation Services Company – which manages air-traffic control at the airport – and aviation watchdog the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) launched a… October 24, 2014 PASSENGERS aboard two planes that almost collided on the runway at the Port Elizabeth Airport yesterday afternoon remain oblivious to their narrow escape. An air traffic controller allegedly failed to coordinate the landing and take-off of two planes, leading to the incoming plane being forced to abort its landing. An… July 11, 2014