Black Friday boosted November retail sales to 8.2% – double the annual growth expected by economists. This marked a sharper than expected jump from October’s 3.2%‚ Statistics SA reported yesterday. November’s total retail sales amounted to R94.67-billion. The highest annual growth rates were recorded for all “other” retailers at 20.8%; furniture and appliance retailers at 14.1%; and clothing retailers at 12.4%. Seasonally adjusted retail trade sales increased by 4% month on month in November. This followed a month-on-month decline of 0.1% in October and 0.4% in September. “Much of the lift in November is projected to have been derived from consumers taking advantage of Black Friday deals,” Investec economist Kamilla Kaplan said. “However‚ the performance of the retail sector over the festive period overall is not expected to have been particularly strong.” Kaplan projected retail sales would rise by 4.1% year on year‚ while macroeconomics website Trading Economics projected retail sales at 4% year on year in October. FNB chief economist Mamello Matikinca also expected retail sales to show very strong growth in November. – BusinessLIVE The JSE all-share index closed only slightly higher yesterday, despite broad-based gains. Platinum shares‚ retailers and property stocks performed best. Analysts said trading was characterised by a lack of conviction ahead of a speech by US Federal Reserve chairwoman Janet Yellen later in the day after the JSE’s close. The… January 19, 2017 Food and basic necessities are likely to top South African shoppers purchases this December. Consumer confidence is currently under pressure from a myriad of factors‚ including elevated inflation‚ a recent rise in interest rates‚ weak economic growth pressuring employment and household income‚ and an unsettled domestic political environment‚ says Christie… December 12, 2016 INFLATION rose to a fourmonth high last month, reflecting a sharp increase in petrol prices. Inflation’s rise to 4.5% yearon-year last month from 4% in March was the second consecutive month of acceleration. Prices increased by 0.9% between March and last month. Inflation had been expected at 4.6% year-on-year. Although… May 21, 2015