A policeman accused of abducting and raping three under-age girls after promising them food and alcohol has been granted bail of R5 000. The Bethelsdorp warrant officer, 46, was stationed at the Port of Ngqura when the incident took place at New Brighton Beach in November. The state alleges that he recruited the three girls aged between 13 and 15, by offering them food and alcohol. He was granted bail in the Motherwell Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday. The policeman allegedly told the three girls he was taking them to a secluded spot at the beach so as not to raise the suspicions of other beachgoers. He then allegedly plied the victims with alcohol before raping them. A case was opened at the Swartkops police station. He faces charges of the sexual exploitation of children, three counts of rape, as well as abduction. In an affidavit submitted during the bail application, the policeman said he was the sole provider for his wife and two children, aged 15 and 20, and that he did not possess a passport or have interests outside South Africa. His bail conditions include 24-hour house arrest until the end of his trial, and he must report to Bethelsdorp police station every Tuesday and Friday. The matter was held over to February 20. A policeman accused of raping five underage girls appeared in the Motherwell Magistrate’s Court in Port Elizabeth yesterday. The 47-year-old warrant officer allegedly raped the girls after buying them alcohol and taking them to the beach. The case against the Port of Ngqura-based policeman was postponed to January 4 for… December 21, 2017 A PORT Elizabeth policeman who allegedly raped a 14- year-old girl repeatedly for several hours was granted bail of R1000 yesterday. The 46-year-old railway police unit warrant officer was also ordered not to have any contact with the complainant, who had lived with him and his wife in KwaDwesi following… April 18, 2014 The grandson of Nelson Mandela who is accused of raping a teenage girl will return to court in November. The 24-year-old did not appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate's Court as scheduled on Wednesday because a new date was set after his defence lawyers met with the magistrate. Magistrate Pieter du… September 17, 2015