Investigators from the Railway Safety Regulator were back on the scene on Friday morning of the train accident near Kroonstad that killed 18 people. The accident occurred on Thursday when a Shosholoza Meyl train en route from Port Elizabeth to Johannesburg crashed into a truck that had failed to stop at a level crossing. Nine carriages were derailed and more than 200 passengers were injured. The regulator is responsible for investigating railway accidents and making recommendations to prevent or reduce the risk of recurrence. Regulator spokeswoman Madelein Williams said its investigators were dispatched to the scene on Thursday morning immediately after receiving news of the accident. Williams said investigators were still undertaking a preliminary investigation‚ and gathering all the facts about the accident. Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi‚ who visited the scene on Thursday afternoon‚ said the truck driver was at fault. “He was taking chances‚” Maswanganyi said. Mthuthuzeli Swartz‚ Acting CEO of the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa‚ said on Thursday that buses were arranged for the remaining passengers to be transported to their destination on Thursday afternoon. He said clean-up operations would resume on Friday. -TimesLIVE Apocalyptic scene after collision At least 22 people were killed yesterday in a head-on collision between two passenger trains in the southern Italian region of Puglia, in one of the country’s worst rail accidents in recent years. Emergency services raced to extract people from smashed carriages thrown across a single… July 13, 2016 Race to find survivors in mangled wreck of express train Emergency workers raced to find survivors yesterday in the mangled wreckage of an Indian express train that derailed overnight, killing more than 100 people, in the worst disaster to hit the country’s ageing rail network in years. Many were sleeping… November 21, 2016 A TRAIN driver died and seven people were injured when a passenger train derailed after hitting a hydraulic crane on a crossing in the Netherlands yesterday. The accident happened at about 8.45am near the northeastern town of Dalfsen, about 40km from the German border. Television images and pictures showed several… February 24, 2016