Treatment for hundreds of cancer patients at Livingstone Hospital has been interrupted again after the radiation machine broke down on January 12. About 50 cancer patients are treated with the machine every day. Hospital management said the machine was still being fixed, but they were hoping to have it up and running today. Hospital chief executive Thulane Madonsela said the machine started giving problems on January 12. “The service provider dispatched technicians on Monday [January 15] who have been trying to find the problem,” he said. “They have promised that they will try everything in their power to ensure that the machine is working by [today].” Madonsela said the machine had been breaking down intermittently since September. “At that time we were granted permission to outsource the service to the private sector until November 7,” he said. Health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said the reason for the long delay was that parts for the machine had to be shipped from overseas. The machine was working in November. DA health spokeswoman Celeste Barker said the department should have contingency measures in place to ensure that patients were helped. “We also want to know how many patients died prematurely because of this negligence and why they have not been sent to other facilities to access treatment,” she said. Patients at Livingstone Hospital have been unable to undergo bone scans for the past two months as the old machine is broken – and too old to fix – while a new machine cannot be used because it has no housing. Eastern Cape department of health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said… June 4, 2017 FIVE months after the R100-million oncology unit was opened to great fanfare at Livingstone Hospital, outpatients are complaining that their radiation treatment is being delayed because of a broken machine. Patients, who fear being victimised and asked not to be named, said they were not receiving radiation treatment, which was… October 21, 2014 Estelle Ellis and Lindile Sifile  elllise@avusa.co.za OUTRAGED Health MEC Sicelo Gqobana discovered HIV-positive patients being forced to queue for medical assistance at a separate entrance at the Sundays Valley Hospital in Kirkwood yesterday. The shocked MEC immediately ordered hospital management to buy a padlock and lock the special entrance. Gqobana… July 5, 2011