Embattled Eskom executive Matshela Koko has turned to the Labour Court to fight an attempt by Eskom management to terminate his services over R1 billion in contracts awarded to his stepdaughter’s company. Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe confirmed Koko met acting CEO Phakamani Hadebe on Thursday. “I can confirm that Mr Koko has met with Mr Hadebe yesterday and he was given two options‚ to either resign or be dismissed. He did not accept either one of these options and he has taken the matter to the Labour Court‚ and earlier this morning legal was preparing their stance on this matter‚” Phasiwe said. Last year the Sunday Times broke the news that Impulse International‚ a company in which Koko’s stepdaughter Koketso Choma owned a 30 percent stake‚ was awarded tenders worth a staggering R1 billion without proper processes being followed. At the time Koko claimed he was not aware and had no influence on the awarding of the tenders. An internal disciplinary hearing‚ which was widely considered rigged in his favour‚ found him not guilty on charges he had acted to benefit his stepdaughter. Eskom has failed to supply substantial evidence to support charges against the state-owned power utility’s suspended acting chief executive and former generation head Matshela Koko. This is according to Koko’s closing submission yesterday‚ in which he reiterates his notguilty plea and sets out his arguments in detail. Koko relies heavily… December 12, 2017 Officials claim move to stop them testifying in disciplinary case against suspended executive Key witnesses in the disciplinary hearing of suspended Eskom executive Matshela Koko are crying foul for what appears to be a campaign of intimidation designed to silence them. Koko’s hearing is due to resume on Thursday, after… November 20, 2017 Eskom acting CEO Matshela Koko has been found not guilty on all charges in a disciplinary hearing. Chairman of the hearing Advocate Mzungulu Mthombeni has ordered his reinstatement. Koko had claimed the accusations against him started surfacing when he dealt with corruption on becoming interim CEO. He faced six charges‚… December 15, 2017