Capitec Bank said on Tuesday that a report accusing it of being a loan shark appears to be filled with errors. “Capitec received a copy of the Viceroy research report on Capitec at 10 am this morning. Shareholders are advised that Capitec has not been approached by Viceroy for insight into our business and none of their allegations have been discussed‚ tested or verified with management‚” the bank said in a statement. “We believe our corporate governance is strong and our communications and disclosures are‚ and always have been transparent‚ clear and to the point. On the face of it‚ the report is filled with factual errors‚ material omissions in respect of legal proceedings against Capitec and opinions that are not supported by accurate
information.” Capitec said it was reviewing the report and would respond in detail later in the day. The Viceroy research report was seen by the public on Tuesday and described the company as a loan shark. Researchers further urged the SA Reserve Bank and Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba to place Capitec under curatorship. Capitec Bank denounced as a loan shark  "Based on our research and due diligence‚ we believe that Capitec is a loan shark with massively understated defaults masquerading as a community micro-finance provider. We believe that the South African Reserve Bank and Minister of Finance should immediately place Capitec into curatorship." That is the statement from Viceroy Research‚… January 30, 2018 Hendrick Mphande EVEN bank officials are vulnerable when it comes to fraud, an incident involving a Port Elizabeth branch consultant has proven. A furious Themba Mahuwa, a consultant at Ubank who banks with Capitec, was swindled out of R7500 at the weekend, just hours after speaking to a man pretending… January 9, 2013 THERE is "no cause for alarm" regarding international rating agency Moody's downgrade of Capitec Bank's deposit ratings and national- scale issuer ratings‚ Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas said yesterday. Speaking at a Land Bank results presentation‚ Jonas said the downgrade was‚ however‚ an indication that despite a "very strong" regulatory… August 19, 2014