Herbex Health South Africa has become the latest advertiser to irk consumers. The weight-loss supplements distributor has drawn the ire of hundreds of social media users for “body shaming” in its new advertisement. The advert features a cake topper of a bridegroom and an overweight bride with a voice-over of the traditional wedding vows. When it gets to the line “in thin and thick”‚ the cake cracks under the weight of the bride and she falls through. The ad ends with a tagline‚ “Don’t spoil your big day”. “Why would you make people think that if they are not thin‚ that it will ruin their big day? “Why should I worry about getting thin for my ‘big day’ if my fiance is loving and marrying me just the way I am?” Lydia Bothma responded to the advert on Facebook. “It is important to be healthy, but it is also very unhealthy to have a low self-image and ads like this do not help.” Others called it “disgusting and offensive” and accused Herbex of sending “a message that women don’t deserve happiness and to feel good about themselves if they are overweight”. Body positivity blogger and Instagrammer Kerry Heathfield said Herbex was aiming for humour, missed the mark. “There is nothing funny about the extremes that women go through not only for their wedding day but on a daily basis to avoid exactly but what Herbex has done – body shaming. “By all means‚ market your product but don’t hit us where it hurts. “Targeting a women’s insecurities and vulnerabilities to try and sell a product is deplorable and disrespectful.” She said Herbex could delete the advert, but the damage had already been done to so many women. But Herbex hasn’t deleted the advert or responded directly to angry consumers. On Thursday the company updated its cover photo with: “#BeYourBest. Herbex recently embarked on an awareness campaign around the issue of weight loss. “The objective of the exercise is to gauge public response to marketing messages of different kinds. “True to form our consumers have been active and vocal in their responses. “Herbex appreciates the honesty and passion and assures our loyal consumers of our continued best service.” WITH six months to go before Shana Kramer's big day, designer Gerhard Meiring has whisked the bride-to-be and winner of The Herald's Win a Dream Wedding competition off to Mums Fabrics to discuss dress preparations. Shana and fiancé Lyle Wolfaardt won an all-expenses paid wedding for 200 guests at Slipperfields… August 6, 2014 Mandy Appleyard finds that by losing – rather than gaining – weight during her menopause years, she enraged a pack of ‘thin-shamers’ A LONG, honest look at myself in a full-length mirror, 10 weeks ago, was the catalyst to try and turn my body into a temple instead of a… July 20, 2015 IT IS a truth universally acknowledged that French women don't get fat. Nor, if you believe the relevant literature, do they age, wrinkle, have facelifts, leave the house without perfume, drink too much or ever, ever sleep alone. Exercise is clearly superfluous to such a lifestyle. French women, it would… January 7, 2015