Makhosi Khoza’s African Democratic Change (ADeC), the new kid on the political block, will this month launch its provincial structure in the Eastern Cape – a traditional ANC stronghold – as it hopes to wrest power from the governing party next year. The former MP left the ANC in September after being one of President Jacob Zuma’s most vocal critics, and established ADeC. Yesterday, ADeC national organiser Lufuno Gogoro confirmed that the party would launch in East London on January 20. “We are coming to the Eastern Cape to get more members and to dismantle the ANC,” Gogoro said. “The ANC has failed to inspire confidence in the people of South Africa, failed to unite the country and to solve the problems facing us as a country.” The party would also target the OR Tambo region. Gogoro said his party would take over the province in next year’s general and provincial elections. Asked if this was not too ambitious, he said liberation movements failed to lead after about 20 years in power and new political parties took over. However, ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi said they were not shaken by ADeC’s arrival in the province. “We contest elections every time because we are part of an ongoing process to transform SA,” he said. “We have weaknesses such as corruption but we are open about them and are dealing with them.” But Gogoro said people wanted service delivery not lip service. The ANC does not own any group of colours‚ or dictate how those colours should be arranged‚ says former party member Dr Makhosi Khoza. She was responding to the ANC’s claim that her newly launched party‚ the African Democratic Change (ADeC)‚ has used the ANC’s colours and logo to confuse… December 5, 2017 The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal has lashed out at Makhosi Khoza‚ as it announced that the disciplinary hearing against its outspoken MP would be postponed by a week. The hearing was set to take place on Sunday‚ but the ANC said that Khoza's legal representative‚ Smanga Sethene‚ asked for an extension… September 10, 2017 ANC top brass, including secretary-general Gwede Mantashe and treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize, are expected in the Eastern Cape today to meet branch leaders from the various regions. Mantashe, Mkhize and deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte will lead national working committee (NWC) teams. They will be clarifying the decision to accept President Jacob… April 12, 2016