Legendary musician Bra Hugh Masekela has died. Bra Hugh’s family sent a statement confirming the news to the media. “After a protracted and courageous battle with prostate cancer, he passed peacefully in Johannesburg, South Africa surrounded by his family,” read the statement. The musician’s team released a statement in October saying he had been battling prostate cancer since 2008. The statement explained that the jazz veteran underwent eye surgery in March 2016 after the cancer spread, and had to go into theatre again in September 2016 as another tumour was discovered. Bra Hugh was born in KwaGuqa township in Witbank and began singing and playing the piano as a child. After seeing the film Young Man with a Horn when he was 14, Masekela began playing the trumpet. His first trumpet was given to him by Archbishop Trevor Huddleston, an anti-apartheid chaplain at St Peter’s Secondary School. He soon mastered the instrument and by 1956 joined Alfred Herbet’s African Jazz Revue. Bra Hugh’s music was inspired by the turmoil that South Africa went through during  apartheid and he said it was used as a weapon to spread political change. Masekela’s son, Sal Masekela, said it was with a heavy heart that he confirmed his father had “hung up his horn after a long battle with prostate cancer”. “It is difficult to comprehend that this moment is real. To me, my father has always been both ageless and immortal. Of the countless shows I had the honor of watching my dad perform, each felt like the first, each felt brand new,” he wrote on Facebook. “To know Hugh Masekela was to know no matter class, creed, color, religion or any other made up distinctions, he stood with empathy and compassion, locked arm in arm with the distressed, displaced and downtrodden everywhere and anywhere on this planet. He carried a deep seeded belief in justice, freedom and equality for all peoples to the very end.”    Fans from across the globe have filled social media with heartfelt condolences to Bra Hugh’s family and have remembered his massive contribution to the country’s political struggle through music:  The legend Hugh Masekela  this is devastating #HughMasekela #RIP — Leanne Manas (@LeanneManas) January 23, 2018    https://www.instagram.com/p/BeSMHC2BdAw/?utm–source=ig–embed& utm–campaign=embed–ufi – TshisaLIVE Jazz legend Hugh Masekela has cancelled his commitments for the immediate future‚ saying he needs all his energy to continue his fight against prostate cancer. In a statement on Saturday‚ he requested privacy going forward “so that I may rest and heal”‚ adding that this would be his only public… October 8, 2017 LEGENDARY South African trumpeter Hugh Masekela will play in Port Elizabeth just before Christmas in one performance on Friday December 18, at the Boardwalk International Convention Centre. Today, even though he is in his mid-70s, the African jazz icon still tours as a performer, composer, producer and activist and only… October 29, 2015 CELEBRATED international trumpeter Hugh Masekela hit all the right notes for scores of budding Nelson Mandela Bay artists at a workshop held in Port Elizabeth yesterday. He gave them the lowdown on the nuts and bolts of his long international music career – and explained just how to hit the… December 18, 2015