Irish singer-songwriter Dolores O’Riordan, frontwoman of the multimillion-selling rock band The Cranberries, died suddenly yesterday aged 46, her publicist said. “Irish and international singer Dolores O’Riordan has died sud- denly in London today. Family members are devastated,” Lindsey Holmes said. “The lead singer was in London for a short recording session. No further details are available at this time.” The band achieved internatio- nal success in the 1990s with their debut album Everyone Else is Doing it, So Why Can’t We?, which included hit single Linger. Follow-up album No Need to Argue went to number one in Australia, France and Germany, and number six in the United States. The album also gave rise to po- litically charged single Zombie, which hit number one across Europe. The band sold about 40 million records worldwide.  The band, formed in 1989, went on a hiatus in 2003, with O’Rior- don telling AFP in a 2012 interview: “We were stuck in a rut. We just needed a break.” O’Riordan headed to Canada, where she gave birth to her third child, but The Cranberries reformed in 2009 after getting together for a one-off show. She hit the headlines in 2014 after pleading guilty to assaulting three police officers and a flight attendant during a flight from New York to Ireland, and was diagnosed with bipolar disorder shortly afterwards. The band was forced to cancel 14 concerts last year due to “medical reasons associated with a back problem” for O’Riordan. Irish President Michael D Hig- gins led the tributes, calling her death a big loss. O’Riordan married Don Burton, former tour manager of Duran, in 1994 but the couple divorced in 2014. The band released the album Something Else last year. British pop singer George Michael, who rose to fame with the band Wham! and sold more than 100 million albums in his career, has died aged 53, his publicist said on Sunday. "It is with great sadness that we can confirm our beloved son, brother and friend George passed away… December 26, 2016 Balisa Ntloko POPULAR recording artist Mario Ogle, who has a strong Eastern Cape fan base, is touring the province from today until next Friday for a series of performances at schools. The fresh-faced young star will also be promoting his DVD, titled Superman, and speaking to pupils about "the value… February 20, 2014 Bob Dylan fans are in for a rare treat as Eastern Cape-born rock n roll showman Duck Chowles is set to front the Centrestage Band to pay tribute to the greatest singer-songwriting poet of this generation. The Freewheelin’ Bob Dylan will be staged at Old Grey in Port Elizabeth from… September 23, 2017