My darlings, how great it is for your favourite gossip gal to finally write to you again after the long summer holidays! Now, if you know your Skinners you will know she absolutely loves new beginnings, not only because it’s a chance for all of us to become and do better, but because it also means new juicier shenanigans to look out for. LOL! That was some anti-climax, was it not? But seriously, don’t you just love the upbeat spirit that comes with a new year? I for one love watching (almost) everyone share their positive New Year’s resolutions and expecting the best year, you know? It’s my favourite time of the year for two reasons: firstly, it’s always hilarious how, every single year, we declare “this is my year”, vow to hit the gym, eat healthy and stop procrastinating but never get around to doing any of those things. Secondly, while some of us are all talk and no action around this time of the year, nothing says “get up and go!” like being surrounded by positive energy. Seeing social media abuzz with motivational posts might just really push some of us to act . . . so maybe all that “talk” is not so bad after all. Speaking of talk, Oprah Winfrey’s speech to women after she received the Cecil B DeMille award at the 75th Golden Globe Awards on Sunday, was such a great way to get into the year. It restored your gossip gal’s hope and left her feeling like running for president of the entire world. One can only hope to see more women stepping up and owning their greatness. How is that for a New Year’s resolution? Anyway, my honeys, because it’s “Januworry” and we’re all literally counting down to payday because “Dezember” did what it does best to people’s bank accounts, the Bay’s social scene is still dry and you know what that means for your Skinners. Let’s call it a week and hope to find a few invitations to party soon. Until next week, ciao! Octayvia Nance GAIL Brown, founder of Sophisticate Models, celebrates the 25th birthday of her modelling school this month. Brown, who started the school in her last year of high school, has achieved great success through Sophisticate Models in the national and international modelling and pageant arena by producing the 2010… August 21, 2013 Octayvia Nance NELSON Mandela Bay fashion designer Johan Wolmarans has been bombarded with clients, saying this is the busiest March and April he has ever experienced. Wolmarans, who won the best designer stand at The Herald Bridal Fair last year, designed the wedding dress forformer The Herald Miss Port Elizabeth… April 24, 2013 ANIMAL Anti-Cruelty League crusader Patsy Wagner is this week’s La Femme lunch date guest at News Cafe at The Boardwalk. The caring Hillside resident spoke about her roots in the Mother City, her love of animals and humankind, and her undying need to help others. What makes the AACL unique… January 15, 2014