Former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu says the “collective” made the decision to close Life Esidimeni homes‚ and that the government does not make decisions individually. Mahlangu‚ who began her arbitration hearing testimony yesterday‚ has laid the responsibility for the tragedy that led to the deaths of 143 mentally ill patients on her former head of department‚ Barney Selebano‚ and former director of mental health Makgabo Manamela. She said her managers had assured that NGOs would be ready for the 1 700 patients after the Life Esidimeni contract was ended. She trusted her team, including Selebano and Manamela. “I had no reason to doubt them.” She said premier David Makhura knew about the decision to close down the homes as part of wideranging cost-cutting measures. “Government decisions are not made by individuals.” Judge Dikgang Moseneke repeatedly questioned Mahlangu on her testimony, saying both Selebano and Manamela had testified that she forced them to go ahead with the project for better or worse. Mahlangu eventually said: “They provided me with inaccurate reports.” Mahlangu‚ who has been studying in London‚ started the arbitration hearing with a witness statement to read out. She apologised for the loss of life. She said the “good intention” of the move was to integrate mentally ill patients into the community. Meanwhile, families shouted outside the hearing: “She is a murderer”. A protest led by the Treatment Action Campaign arrived at the hearing during the tea break. Families carried white crosses and held posters calling for justice. Families of the victims of the Life Esidimeni tragedy have called for former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu to testify in arbitration hearings. This is because she led the project to close down Life Esidimeni hospitals, despite warnings, and to transfer very sick people to non- government organisations. Helping Hand‚… October 24, 2017 Gauteng Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu has resigned in the wake of the health ombud's report into the death of 94 mentally ill patients after they were moved from the licensed Life Esidimeni private homes to 27 unlicensed facilities. Premier David Makhura has accepted her resignation‚ saying: "Mahlangu understands. If something… February 1, 2017 Economic Freedom Fighters members in the Gauteng legislature have laid murder charges against former Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu and the entire Gauteng cabinet after it was revealed in a damning report that 94 mental patients died due to the provincial health department’s negligence. This follows Mahlangu's resignation as both Health… February 2, 2017