Steinhoff International started the new year with a 7.5% jump to R5 — despite issuing a statement saying it still does not know when it will release its 2017 results‚ and that its results going back more than two years will have to be restated. Steinhoff‚ which warned shareholders on December 14 that its 2016 results would have to be restated‚ said on Tuesday morning that its 2015 results also “can no longer be relied upon”. “Furthermore‚ whilst the internal review and investigation into the accounting irregularities have not yet concluded‚ the restatement of the financial statements of Steinhoff International for years prior to 2015 is likely to be required‚” it said. Steinhoff missed its deadline on Friday — when the JSE closed early for the new year’s long weekend — to publish its results for the year to end-September within the bourse’s three-month deadline. “The group continues to work with its external auditors to seek to conclude the audit of the company’s 2017 consolidated financial statements as soon as reasonably practicable‚” it said on Tuesday‚ without indicating when its delayed results would be published. “Given current information‚ the company does not believe that the restatements will apply to Steinhoff Services Limited‚ issuer of listed bonds on the JSE.” Chairman Wiese takes interim charge as chief executive Markus Jooste quits Steinhoff International’s shares crashed yesterday after it revealed accounting irregularities and its chief executive officer, shocking investors who had backed the rapid reinvention of a South African furniture chain into an international retail empire. The company said late on… December 7, 2017 A man phoned our newsroom last week to complain bitterly about the Steinhoff scandal. He was particularly irked because he believed the matter was handled with kid gloves by all those he viewed as instruments of social justice. Leading the pack of culprits in his eyes was the media. He… December 13, 2017 Moody’s downgrades scandal-ridden retail giant further on default fears Ratings agency Moody’s downgraded Steinhoff’s debt deeper into junk territory yesterday and warned further downgrades could follow due to mounting cash-flow problems at the South African retail group. The company, majorityowned by tycoon Christo Wiese, is fighting for survival following its… December 29, 2017