Warrant details unclear as papers lost in sea after sheriff’s death fall The cargo ship that was meant to be arrested over the weekend has since set sail and is heading towards Cape Town. Drama unfolded over the weekend when Port Elizabeth North deputy sheriff Henry Kemp fell at least 8m into the ocean while climbing a ladder alongside the Blue Marlin I to execute a warrant of arrest. Kemp, 42, who had been a sheriff for about 20 years, was boarding the vessel at about 7pm on Saturday to serve an arrest warrant on the Liberian-registered vessel. The Blue Marlin I was in the Bay about halfway between the Port of Port Elizabeth and the Port of Ngqura. It remains unclear what happened but while climbing the ladder, Kemp paused for about two minutes and then fell backwards into the ocean. Kemp died that evening and by Sunday morning the Blue Marlin I was docked in the Port of Ngqura. By 6pm on Sunday, the Blue Marlin had left the Bay and by 8.30am yesterday it was passing Mossel Bay heading towards Cape Town. According to the vessel’s itinerary, it is set to dock in Cape Town today. Asked why the ship had left the Bay, Port of Ngqura port captain Thulani Dubeko said no papers had been produced stating the Blue Marlin I had been arrested. “The Port of Ngqura currently has no papers indicating that the vessel has been arrested. “The ship was therefore allowed to leave the port and later the anchorage area, heading for Cape Town,” he said. Asked why the warrant of arrest was issued, Dubeko referred queries to the sheriff’s office. Port Elizabeth North sheriff Llewellyn Sharp said because all of the paperwork was lost in the fall, details surrounding the arrest were unclear. “All the paperwork is in the water. We lost it all,” he said. Speaking in general terms, Sharp said in most cases where a ship was arrested, the two parties involved in the civil dispute would reach an agreement as costs of keeping a ship docked were vast. “The ship can be arrested and then only a few hours later an agreement is reached between the parties involved and the vessel is released. “This is what usually happens due to the large sums of money involved,” he said. Sharp was aware that the Blue Marlin I had set sail. “I am not sure why it is gone. Usually, one would find that an agreement between the parties involved was reached and they agreed to let it sail based on their agreement,” he said. With regard to Kemp’s death, police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said a postmortem had been concluded and a second opinion had been asked for. “The first doctor gave the cause of death as drowning. However, a second opinion is being asked for,” he said. Port Elizabeth maritime lawyer Karel van Wyk confirmed that he was involved with the matter but declined to comment or even elaborate on his role. “It is under investigation,” he said. Asked for reasons why the vessel had left the Bay and what the arrest stemmed from, Van Wyk declined to specify. South African Maritime Safety Authority deputy chief operations officer Captain Nigel Campbell said they were not involved with the arrest warrant. “It is normally a commercial issue and we are not involved,” he said. Police and the South African Maritime Safety Authority are investigating the death of a deputy sheriff of the court, who plunged at least 8m into the ocean while climbing a steep ladder to execute a warrant of arrest on Liberian vessel the Blue Marlin I. Why the 190m Blue Marlin… January 29, 2018 Chaos erupted when a 280m container ship transporting hazardous material, including paint and gas, was forced to dock in Port Elizabeth after a fire broke out on board. The alarm was raised when the cargo vessel, the APL Austria, made a distress call for assistance to the Maritime Rescue Coordination… February 14, 2017 Man arrested after shining beam at helicopter A PORT Elizabeth man was released on R1 000 bail after he was arrested for allegedly shining a laser light at a hovering police helicopter. This marks one of the first arrests of its kind in Port Elizabeth and one of only a… March 31, 2016