Government and the National Consumer Commission are being urged to rein in unscrupulous traders who are hiking the price of bottled water to cash in on the drought crisis in Cape Town. Parliament’s portfolio committee on trade and industry said it would write to the minister of trade and industry and the commission to seek intervention because consumers‚ especially the poor‚ were being exploited. “In principle we are asking for intervention so that something can be done to make sure the regular price of bottled water is not increased without any regard to the pockets of consumers‚ especially the most vulnerable‚” the ANC’s Adrian Williams said. Members of the committee agreed‚ saying something had to be done. Ghaleb Cachalia from the Democratic Alliance said: “Measures should be developed to prevent the poor bearing the brunt of such unfair trading.” Committee chair Joanmariae Fubbs said in a statement on Tuesday: “The current increase in the price of bottled water being charged by some unscrupulous entrepreneurs amounts to exploitation of the poor and vulnerable and does not reflect the spirit of the Constitution.” – TimesLIVE Reducing demand for electricity is the quickest and cheapest way to relieve the crisis and rising tariffs, the Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry said on Tuesday (02/09/2014). The job should however be given to an independent body, chamber president Janine Myburgh said in a statement. "It is not realistic… September 2, 2014 South Africa’s Catholic bishops on Wednesday said “it is unfair to pass on the burden of Eskom failures to customers‚ especially the poor”. For this reason‚ the church’s Commission for Justice and Peace has called on the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) to reject Eskom’s electricity tariff request… June 17, 2015 Focus set to be on stimulating small retail sector GROCERY heavyweights face a fresh Competition Commission inquiry. Established by Economic Development Minister Ebrahim Patel‚ it has a wider ambit than the previous probe that cleared the big supermarkets of anti-competitive activities and price-fixing. The watchdog’s overarching aim is to examine… July 16, 2015