Thirteen-year-old Qden Blaauw began playing piano when he was eight‚ and he has won numerous awards and played at prestigious events across South Africa. Now the Cape Town teenager is the first African and one of 10 pianists worldwide chosen to receive master classes in Saarlouis‚ Germany‚ in March. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Blaauw will receive training from German pianists Wolfram Schmidt-Leonardy and Rudolf Meister‚ and will perform a concerto with a leading German orchestra. The master classes are free but the flights‚ accommodation and meals are not included. Qden’s father‚ Denric Blaauw‚ has started a crowdfunding campaign to raise the R60‚000 required to send his son and one adult to the event. The GoGetFunding campaign has raised R41‚000 so far with 49 days left to go. “I love classical music and I feel like I’m in a different world‚” said Qden in a 2017 TV interview. “I want to tell a story through my music.” TimesLIVE captured Blaauw playing the piano with a symphony orchestra at the Artscape theatre in Cape Town last year. Mkhululi Ndamase IT has been just more than a year since a Port Elizabeth high school started a marimba band and they are already walking away with top honours at national competitions. Sakhisizwe Senior Secondary from Zwide hit the right notes when they competed against 26 other marimba groups around… September 20, 2012 Pericles Anetos ONE of the most illustrious musicians, pianists and composers ever produced on South African shores, Abdullah Ibrahim, will be gracing the PE Opera House stage next week. Formerly known as Dollar Brand to those lucky enough to be familiar with the brilliance of his music, the jazz legend… October 13, 2013 Gungqisa, Ndwayana to face off in welterweight clash PORT Elizabeth fans will be treated to an international boxing extravaganza which will feature two world title fights at the Lillian Ngoyi Sports Centre in KwaZakhele on Sunday. Topping the attractive sevenbout bill will be a clash for the vacant World Boxing… May 26, 2016