The medical records of the woman allegedly raped by a U21 Blue Bulls player in Port Elizabeth must be made available to the defence. A copy of it and the notes made by the investigating police officer must be handed over to the rugby player’s attorney, Danie Gouws. This was ordered by Magistrate Una Rhodes in the New Brighton Magistrate’s Court yesterday. “On the balance of probability the state case is not strong and there is a chance of acquittal,” Gouws said. The defence asked for access to the medical records and the woman’s statement. The 19-year-old former Grey High School pupil is facing two charges of rape and one of theft of a cellphone. The suspect, who is from King William’s Town, may not be named as he has not pleaded yet. The alleged incident took place after a night out in KwaMagxaki. The state claims the young rugby player pulled the woman out of the car and allegedly raped her. The matter is due to continue in court today. The Port Elizabeth High Court handed down an interdict against a former policeman who allegedly terrorised advocate Candice Mey by sending threatening messages and holding a signboard at busy intersection labelling her an intellectual prostitute. Judge Nomathamsanqa Beshe interdicted Jacques Gouws, 49, who was ordered to refrain from any form… August 26, 2016 Details of how two friends allegedly siphoned millions of rands from Nelson Mandela Bay’s troubled bus system emerged yesterday when the Hawks swooped on former EP Rugby president Cheeky Watson, a taxi boss, a former municipal official and an events company director. The breakthrough arrests follow a lengthy probe into alleged… April 1, 2017 Kathryn Kimberley WEARING a T-shirt with the words "Cleverly disguised as a responsible person" written on the front, Port Elizabeth murder accused Andre Gouws celebrated with family members yesterday after being released on bail. Earlier, the court heard how Gouws, 27, had little recollection of crashing into a cyclist while… October 11, 2012