A final list of the passengers who died when a train from Port Elizabeth collided with a truck in the Free State in a crash which claimed the lives of 21, will likely be released on Friday. DNA results matching the victims of the fatal Shosholoza Meyl crash outside Kroonstad earlier this month will be discussed with families tomorrow, a spokesman for the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) said yesterday. On January 3, the Shosholoza Meyl left Port Elizabeth for Johannesburg at 3pm. The Railway Safety Regulator’s (RSR) initial report states that there were 713 passengers aboard. On January 4 at about 9am, the train collided with the trailer of an articulated truck at a level crossing between Kroonstad and Hennenman. After the train collided with the second of two trailers, five coaches caught fire. According to the RSR, at the time of the accident there were 599 passengers on board after a number had alighted at other stations. Prasa spokesman Dr Sipho Sithole said DNA tests had to be performed as the victims’ bodies were burnt beyond recognition. Prasa will meet the next of kin tomorrow. Should they agree, the list of victims will be published on Friday. Four people have died in a passenger train crash in the Free State. The Shosholoza Meyl passenger train which left Port Elizabeth on Wednesday afternoon en route to Johannesburg was involved in a collision involving a car and a truck near Kroonstad at about 9am. The train is on fire… January 4, 2018 A Port Elizabeth man who was travelling to Johannesburg to visit his son and grandson has described the moment a passenger train collided with two other vehicles on Thursday morning, killing four people. The Shosholoza Meyl train went off the tracks and caught alight after colliding with a car and… January 4, 2018 The Railway Safety Regulator (RSR) will on Monday release a preliminary investigation report into the cause of Thursday’s Kroonstad Shosholoza Meyl crash. At least 19 people died when the train‚ en route from Port Elizabeth to Johannesburg‚ collided with an articulated tipper truck causing several carriages to derail. Four children… January 8, 2018