About 31% of consumers would consider buying a car completely online – from identifying the car‚ liaising with the dealership‚ arranging the finance to signing the deal – and then having it delivered to them. That is what emerged from a recent study initiated by online motoring portal Cars.co.za‚ which had about 1 500 motorists completing a survey. “That statistic really surprised us‚” Cars.co.za co-founder Alastair MacMurray said. “We didn’t expect it to be so high.” I would caution that it is a really bad idea not to inspect and drive a car before you commit‚ especially in the case of a used car‚ but even new cars have snags and are known to have little bodywork mishaps before delivery. Last week, I was contacted by a man who bought a year-old luxury car from a prestigious dealership online‚ but the car was delivered with multiple problems‚ which he is battling to get rectified. The survey results were also a wake-up call for dealerships in terms of how quickly consumers expect them to respond to a lead – 20% of respondents expected to be contacted within two hours of posting a lead‚ and 50% within 12 hours. The advent of the smartphone has had a major impact on the way people research and choose the cars they buy. Whereas 56% of those who visited the Cars.co.za site in 2014 did so via phone‚ that surged to 72% last year. – TimesLIVE IF your car's engine is damaged by "misfuelling", through no fault of yours, you shouldn't be out of pocket, but you may well be... If a petrol attendant puts the "wrong" fuel in your tank, and neither they nor you notice before you pull off, you won't get far. Once… December 15, 2014 Scared owners say they are being offered below normal book price The rising number of Ford Kugas which have self-combusted on South Africa’s roads have spooked owners of the SUV‚ who fear they will not be able to resell their cars. “It’s terrible. I am so scared that my car… January 10, 2017 Cindy Preller A FORMER Port Elizabeth schoolboy is marketing the new Mustang vehicle worldwide. Jacques Brent is Ford Motor Company's group marketing manager for large cars and SUVs and is based in Detroit, Michigan. The sixth-generation Mustang will be available in South Africa at the end of 2015. It will… December 13, 2013