The towns of Ladysmith and Ezakheni in central KwaZulu-Natal were on lockdown on Monday as feuding taxi associations clashed over routes. The Klipriver and Sizwe Taxi Associations in Ladysmith have been embroiled in conflict for several years‚ a feud that has claimed 61 lives since 2014‚ according to the provincial department of transport. After 11 people died in a mass shooting – including five teachers caught in the crossfire – on the N11 in October‚ Transport MEC Mxolisi Kaunda suspended the two taxi associations. Gunmen had ambushed the deputy chairperson of the Klipriver Taxi Association as he was travelling in a bakkie on the N11 with four other occupants. The bakkie driver lost control of the vehicle and it collided with a minibus taxi transporting teachers from a local school. Five busses‚ part of a service introduced to fill the void left by the suspended taxi operators‚ were torched at a depot on Sunday night. Burning barricades were also erected on routes around the town on Sunday night‚ prompting a response by riot police. Kaunda’s spokesman Kwanele Ncalane said that the MEC had planned to visit the region on Monday. “Messages were circulated last night by taxi operators who were mobilising the community to shut down routes and disrupt operation of busses‚” he said. “He (Kaunda) will receive an assessment from police and we will determine the next course of action… We will not be threatened or intimidated.” Feuding taxi associations operating in and around Mthatha in the Eastern Cape have committed to stop the taxi violence and instead be advocates for peace and stability. Speaking at a prayer service held at the Mthatha Town Hall to call for an end to the ongoing taxi violence‚ leaders of… July 26, 2016 A minibus taxi strike turned ugly in Cape Town on Monday‚ forcing commuters to change their travel plans. Authorities were also braced for a possible taxi strike in the capital Tshwane‚ although it appeared to have been called off at the eleventh hour. Golden Arrow bus service said they had… September 18, 2017 YESTERDAY The Herald editorial/leader had the headline, “About time the IPTS was probed”. It described how, as we are aware, the IPTS project “is stalled due to a lack of funds and national Treasury is busy acquiring evidence against those responsible for squandering taxpayers’ money”. The editorial goes on to… August 4, 2015