Social development minister Bathabile Dlamini is set to face tough questions from former SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) director general Zane Dangor on Thursday. Dlamini is appearing at an inquiry that is investigating her role in the social grants crisis. She has maintained throughout the week that she cannot be blamed for the saga. Dlamini has been described as “unresponsive and evasive” when she was pressed on her decision to set up work streams to handle the payment of social grants. She told the inquiry that her decision to set up the work streams was supported by Sassa’s executive committee‚ which included former Sassa chief executive Thokozani Magwaza. However‚ Magwaza has accused Dlamini of telling him to not get involved in the work streams and instead focus on the day-to-day running of the agency. Dlamini denied Magwaza’s claims‚ saying there is no way she would have told a chief executive to back off from the work streams. As the inquiry resumes on Thursday‚ Dlamini will go head to head with Dangor. Dangor and Magwaza will also testify. The Constitutional Court last year ordered that an inquiry be established to set out Dlamini’s roles and responsibilities as social development minister. The court ordered that all parties involved in the matter appoint a judge to investigate whether Dlamini should be held liable for the grants saga. Retired judge Bernard Ngoepe is heading the inquiry‚ which started on Monday. The Black Sash Trust approached the court in March last year after Sassa acknowledged it would not be able to pay millions of grants from April 1‚ despite promising the court in November 2015 it would do so. – TimesLIVE Former director-general in the Department of Social Development Zane Dangor has revealed the hurtful allegations of racism and sexism that led to his resignation. Dangor quit last month amid the social grants crisis‚ citing a breakdown in the relationship between himself and Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini. In an affidavit… April 11, 2017 Social development minister Bathabile Dlamini is likely to face more tough questions on Tuesday at an inquiry into her role in the social grants crisis. On Monday‚ Dlamini‚ who chose to testify in her home language‚ Zulu‚ defended her role in the establishment of work streams‚ which were to deal… January 23, 2018 The inquiry into social development minister Bathabile Dlamini's role in the social grants saga got off to a shaky start on Tuesday as she was accused of being "unresponsive and evasive". Counsel for the Black Sash Trust‚ Geoff Budlender SC‚ grilled Dlamini on the procurement process of the leaders of… January 23, 2018