Professor Jonathan Moyo‚ one of former president Robert Mugabe’s staunch loyalists‚ claims that Zimbabwe is now in the hands of the “most feared people” in the country’s history. Moyo‚ the former higher education minister‚ has been in hiding in self-imposed exile since the military intervened last year to remove Mugabe from power. “Right now the cabinet is led by the most feared people in the history of this country‚” he said in an interview on BBC’s HardTALK show http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/n3ct2knj that was broadcast on Thursday. Zimbabwe is set to hold general elections in 2018 on a date yet to be announced. Moyo believes that the poll will not be free and fair. “He (President Emmerson Mnangagwa) cannot hold free and fair elections‚” he said‚ arguing that there was no history of democracy if the bullet came before the ballot‚ compromising constitutionalism. Since Mnangagwa came to power‚ most politicians that were aligned to Mugabe have been arrested on various corruption charges but later released due to a lack of evidence. Mugabe’s former finance minister Dr Ignatius Chombo‚ who was abducted on the night of the coup‚ is however still facing corruption charges. Chombo successfully applied this week to have his bail conditions relaxed. Initially he was instructed to report three times a day to the nearest police station‚ but under new conditions set by Harare magistrate Josephine Sande‚ the former minister will have to report once a day to police between Monday and Friday. Meanwhile‚ Zanu PF Youth League leader Magura Charumbira‚ who famously booed former first lady Grace Mugabe during a rally in Bulawayo‚ died in a car crash on Monday. Sacked vice-president to take reins as Mugabe finally quits Zimbabwe's former vice-president Emmerson Mnangagwa will be sworn in as president today or tomorrow, Zanu-PF legal secretary Patrick Chinamasa said, after the bombshell announcement of Robert Mugabe’s resignation last night. Zanu-PF chief whip Lovemore Matuke said Mnangagwa would serve the remainder… November 22, 2017 The day started with reports of shots being fired outside Zimbabwe President Robert Mugabe’s house, and ended with a Southern African Development Community delegation hastily leaving for Harare in an attempt to stop an audacious and carefully coordinated coup attempt from succeeding. What transpired from early yesterday had all the… November 16, 2017   Robert Mugabe resigned as Zimbabwe's president on Tuesday, shortly after parliament began an impeachment process to end his nearly four decades of rule. The 93-year old clung on for a week after an army takeover and expulsion from his own ruling ZANU-PF party, which also told him to leave… November 21, 2017