A major East Cape legislature reshuffle and shake-up in at least four municipalities is on the cards. This was announced by ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi at a media briefing at Calata House in King William’s Town, following a two-day provincial executive committee (PEC) meeting which ended yesterday. The municipalities include Mnquma, Enoch Mgijima in Komani, Port St Johns and the Walter Sisulu municipality in Aliwal North. Ngcukayitobi said the PEC had received reports from sub-committees on the state of municipalities as well as Bhisho government departments. “We have agreed that national officials, working with the provincial officials, must make a thorough assessment and make proposals about reconfiguration of the provincial government,” he said. In the firing line is ANC chief whip Zolile Mrara, who did not make it into the PEC. “That [changes] will be applicable to other positions within the provincial legislature wherein the ANC [conference] resolution says this position is supposed to be occupied by a member of the PEC,” Ngcukayitobi said. “But when we are ready with that, we will brief the media.” The Oscar Mabuyane-led top five provincial officials have also been tasked with organising a meeting with top party officials to review its deployees in the Phumulo Masualle-led legislature. This will follow immediately after an ANC lekgotla at the weekend, at which Masualle and his provincial members are expected to table performance reports. But Masualle has yet to attend any of the meetings since losing to Mabuyane as PEC chairman in October – and it remains to be seen whether he will pitch up for this one. Ngcukayitobi said: “We are disappointed by his no-shows. We expected better from him on how he relates to the organisation.” He said the PEC had also decided to reshuffle council executives at the Port St Johns municipality, Enoch Mgijima, Walter Sisulu and Mnquma. “We have decided that, because of chaos in some of these municipalities, the PEC must take over certain functions,” he said. “Part of those functions would be to oversee all the ANC caucuses. “In Walter Sisulu in Joe Gqabi, there are inefficiencies and financial nonviability and problems of political leadership. “We have agreed to take over the running of that municipality. “What that means is that we may change the mayor, the speaker and chief, but that responsibility has been given to the [party] officials working with the PWC [provincial working committee]. “We have agreed to do the same in Butterworth. “Everybody is concerned about the state of that particular municipality. “We have agreed to make changes in Mnquma, including in the executive council. “Within 14 days, we must have effected those changes, otherwise we would have to report back to the PEC. “We want to intervene in the interest of the people of these municipalities. We will also make an intervention in Port St Johns municipality . . . because of lack of service delivery.” The PEC also agreed to call on national ANC officials to remove Jacob Zuma as state president. Party to grill premier and mayors on Mandela funds ANC bosses in the Eastern Cape have summoned premier Phumulo Masualle and three mayors to its provincial headquarters to be quizzed on the Nelson Mandela funeral funds scandal. Masualle, Buffalo City metro mayor Xola Pakati, OR Tambo mayor Nomakhosazana Meth and… December 8, 2017 Anarchy won’t change anything – provincial chairman No amount of anarchy is going to change the leadership of the ANC’s provincial executive committee (PEC) in the Eastern Cape. That was the message delivered by recently elected provincial chairman Oscar Mabuyane at an ANC PEC meeting with alliance partners and structures at Bayworld… November 6, 2017 ANC will decide if they stay, says Mabuyane The fate of several MECs hangs in the balance, with newly elected ANC Eastern Cape chairman Oscar Mabuyane saying a decision to reshuffle the provincial government cabinet was up to the ANC and this would be based on performance. Former ANC Eastern… October 4, 2017