Springbok scrumhalf Rudy Paige could be in the sights of the Southern Kings after he was left out of the Bulls Super Rugby squad by new coach John Mitchell. Kings head coach Deon Davids lauded Paige’s playing ability yesterday and agreed it was possible that SA Rugby could pull some strings to facilitate such a move. SA Rugby is bankrolling the Kings and must be alarmed that the team are bottom of the PRO14 log after a miserable run of 13 consecutive defeats. A player of Paige’s ability would add much-needed experience and extra class as they bid to turn things around in the second half of the season Asked if the jettisoned Paige could be heading to the Kings, Davids laughed and said: “You know more than me.” Pressed on whether he felt SA Rugby could pull some strings to bring Paige to the Bay, he said: “I think so. Maybe that is the part of the discussion we need to engage in and see how we go forward. “We are in discussions in terms of how we can improve and turn things around for next season, but it is still in the beginning stages. So hopefully, in a few weeks, we will have more information.” Davids said it would be nice to have a player like Paige at the Kings for a number of reasons. “Rudy is a national scrumhalf with experience. In our circumstances and the conditions that we are playing, he could definitely add a lot of value. “He has a good pass, is a good defender and he has good kicking skills. I also think he has good leadership qualities. “It would be good under these circumstances to see him play. For the young men we have here, and in our current situation, such a player would be valuable for our group,” Davids said. Paige’s omission was the major surprise in Mitchell’s 38-man Super Rugby squad. Most critics say the 28-year-old, who has 13 test caps, still has a lot to offer despite currently recovering from a groin injury. He is expected to be fit again by the end of next month. “Paige has been fantastic for the club. He’s made it his life in recent years and has given a lot, but I just thought it was time to move forward with the young No 9s. I like a very fast No 9 and certainly all the No 9s we’ve selected have that ability,” Mitchell said. The Kings beat the Madibaz Varsity Cup team 26-7 yesterday in a training match. They now have a welcome break before they travel to Ireland for their next match against Ulster on February 9. They then have away games against Ospreys and Leinster before their next home game against the Newport Gwent Dragons in Port Elizabeth. Third choice – but Paige positive BULLS scrumhalf Rudy Paige was one of the form halfbacks in a mediocre South African Super Rugby season for scrumhalfs. The same could be said of feisty Lions crackerjack Faf de Klerk, but Springbok coach Heyneke Meyer showed no belief in him. Paige, who… September 1, 2015 Every point vital against Sharks, so flyhalf’s radar must be spot on PIVOT Elgar Watts is itching to put the boot in for the Southern Kings when they kickoff their Vodacom Super Rugby campaign against the Sharks at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tomorrow (3.05pm). Every point will be vital… February 26, 2016 A MASS revolt by players and clubs against EP Rugby Union president Cheeky Watson could further delay the SA Rugby Union’s plans to belatedly kickstart the troubled Southern Kings into action before they return to Super Rugby next year. With their pre-season preparations already in tatters and behind schedule, EP… December 7, 2015