Never have we seen a community stand together as was the case when Executive Frail Care had a devastating fire on January 12. The Morningside Neighbourhood Watch assisted and organised donations, and assisted in moving the residents to the home down the road of Deon and Zelda Marais, who kindly opened their home to us. DA ward councillor Sharlene Davids was there for most of the day arranging with Disaster Management to deliver beds, mattresses and blankets. Pastor Philip Voight stayed with us for most of the day and had counselling sessions with the staff members. Donations started streaming in – food, clothes, toiletries, drinking water, bedding, too much to mention. The community of Port Elizabeth, not only Morningside, opened their hearts and donated whatever they could. We do not have the names and contact numbers of all the wonderful people who made donations, but we would like to thank each of you from the bottom of our hearts. You do not realise the difference you have made in the residents’ lives during this trying time. Businesses really did such a lot for us and St John’s is currently supplying lunches every day. The Department of Social Development assisted. The radio stations aired requests for donations – you guys are great. Last but not least, we would like to thank the families of the residents who stand by us and who keep on supporting us. We love your family members as if they are our own. The owners with help from the community once again have started cleaning up and repainting the part of the centre not affected by the fire, while we are waiting for the insurance company to start the renovations. The residents will return to a new-look frail care centre. – Marius and Annette Kemp (owners), and Estelle Kemp (manager), Morningside, Port Elizabeth A Port Elizabeth woman and her husband have opened their hearts and home to the survivors of the devastating fire which gutted most of a frail care centre on Friday. Zelda Marais, 50, of Morningside, who lives up the road from the Executive Frail Care centre in Colin Street, said… January 15, 2018 AN elderly disabled man died in a fire that broke out in a Morningside frail care centre yesterday morning, triggering the emergency evacuation of the remaining 14 residents. The blaze, which started on the second floor of the Executive Frail Care centre in Colin Street at about 8am, claimed the… January 12, 2018 THE Boardwalk is footing the R200000 bill for the refurbishment of the Gelvandale Frail Care Centre, which offers around-the-clock care for the aged who are unable to care for themselves. January 25, 2014