Patricia de Lille has until Friday to give reasons to the DA as to why she should not resign as mayor of Cape Town. This follows a postponement of the initial deadline that the party’s federal executive gave to De Lille‚ following an investigation by a subcommittee of the federal executive. The subcommittee found sufficient management and governance-related challenges prevalent in the DA’s City of Cape Town caucus‚ negatively impacting the City’s mandate to govern efficiently for the people of Cape Town‚ Phumzile Van Damme‚ DA spokeswoman said in a statement in December. De Lille was placed on suspension by the party pending the outcome of the investigations. The lead-up to De Lille’s suspension was characterised by mounting tension within the top echelons of the City of Cape Town. It was reported in November last year that the conflict had embroiled city manager Achmat Ebrahim‚ transport commissioner Melissa Whitehead‚ and the executive director of the department of the mayor‚ Craig Kesson. This also coincided with a conflict between De Lille and MMC JP Smith‚ which has led to a DA inquiry.
Kesson reportedly accused De Lille in an affidavit of issuing instructions to make allegations of financial misconduct against Ebrahim and Whitehead “go away”. De Lille told Business Day in December‚ before the deadline for her reasons were originally postponed‚ that she was considering her legal options‚ as she did not believe the reasons provided by the DA warranted her suspension or her removal. The DA's national leadership has asked Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille to give reasons why she should stay in her job. In the meantime‚ she has been suspended from the party following "troubling allegations of maladministration in the City". The federal executive said on Thursday night that it had… December 15, 2017 Embattled Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille will know her fate at the beginning of 2018 after the DA agreed to grant her an extension to provide reasons why she should not resign. De Lille has been accused of ignoring misconduct and tender irregularities and some claim she used public… December 19, 2017 Chairperson of the DA federal council James Selfe added to the tense political climate in Cape Town when he lashed out at mayor Patricia de Lille publically. In a statement on Thursday‚ Selfe rubbished as “patently nonsense” suggestions by De Lille that an inquiry into political tensions in the city… November 30, 2017