Two men believed to have broken into a house in Salisbury Park last week were arrested yesterday while allegedly scouting the same area to find a house to break into. Officials said yesterday the men, both 38, might be members of the “front door kickers” gang behind several burglaries and robberies across Nelson Mandela Bay. Police spokesman Warrant Officer Alwyn Labans said the arrest came after a tip-off about two men in a gold Nissan Tiida driving around the area, between Miramar and Mount Pleasant, at about 11am. “Police and security companies responded and one of the security officials spotted the car. Police were alerted and gave pursuit,” he said. “The car was pulled off the road in Circular Drive and both occupants were arrested for the burglary last week.” The gang are known as the “front door kickers” because they usually drive around targeted suburbs before quickly kicking open the front door of a house and running inside. Within minutes they ransack the property, usually grabbing plasma television sets and other small valuables, before speeding off. THREE more homes were broken into yesterday as a gang continued its crime spree across Port Elizabeth. Yesterday morning, a gun safe and two bigscreen television sets were stolen in three separate burglaries, while on Tuesday five bigscreen sets were stolen in other incidents. At 4pm yesterday, three men were… June 23, 2016 A PORT Elizabeth man arrested during a raid on a Bethelsdorp chop shop is expected to appear in the Gelvandale Magistrate’s Court today. The 36-year-old, whom police will not name until he has appeared in court, was arrested at his home – from where the alleged chop shop operates –… April 7, 2016 Man linked to possible syndicate held after shots fired at Atlas officer A breakthrough has been made in connection with a gang that robs Port Elizabeth nightclub patrons walking to their cars in the early hours. This stems from an alleged shooting last week where an Atlas Security response officer… July 5, 2016