 An elderly man died on Friday morning when a fire gutted the second floor of a Morningside frail care centre. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said David Oberholzer Snr, 73, was one of 15 residents at the Executive Frail Care Centre in Colin Street. The other 14 residents, most of whom use wheelchairs and walking aids, were safely evacuated. Naidu said the fire started at about 8am, while the other residents were in the dining hall downstairs having breakfast. “One of the caregivers went to an upstairs room where the deceased was later found. Because he is an amputee, he usually gets meals brought to his room. While the caregiver was walking in the passage, she noted a cloud of thick smoke,” she said. “The alarm was raised and all 14 occupants in the dining room were evacuated. Attempts to get to the deceased failed.” Naidu said that the fire department managed to extinguish the blaze by 9am. “At this stage the cause of the fire remains unknown. Fire Department specialist are on the scene and we are awaiting a report from them to establish the exact cause of the fire,” she said. An inquest docket has been opened. More than 2000 people are helping to quell the fire in Muizenberg that broke out over the weekend, the environmental affairs department said on Wednesday. This figure included 150 members of the department's Working on Fire (WoF) programme, department spokesman Zolile Nqayi said in a statement. Fifty more people from… March 5, 2015 A double storey building in Claremont was on fire on Thursday, Cape Town fire chief Ian Schnetler said. "I can confirm that there is a fire in a double storey building but we are waiting for further report backs," he said. "At this point we have no reports of injuries.… March 5, 2015 Firefighters were still battling three areas in Muizenberg where a fire broke out over the weekend, Cape Town Disaster Risk Management said on Tuesday. "Firefighters worked throughout the night, they are on the ground battling three sectors at Chapman's Peak at the Hout Bay side, Tokai Forest and Noordhoek," spokeswoman… March 3, 2015