The South African all-male choir Ladysmith Black Mambazo, a perennial favourite at the Grammys, on Sunday won for the fifth time with an album that revisits one of its breakthrough works. The ensemble – which has brought a global audience to the traditional Zulu style of harmony-driven singing, known as isicathamiya – took the Best World Music Album award for Shaka Zulu Revisited: 30th Anniversary Collection. Ladysmith Black Mambazo came to worldwide attention when Paul Simon enlisted the group for his 1986 album Graceland, a landmark work of world music fusion which revived the folk icon’s career and won the most prestigious Grammy for Album of the Year. Shaka Zulu came the following year. The group decided to re-record the Shaka Zulu album in tribute to the group’s founder Joseph Shabalala, who has retired and handed control to his four sons. The sons said that the latest album, with younger singers on the same tunes, was also meant to honour earlier members of the sprawling ensemble who have since died. pic.twitter.com/8A80OsV8Sp — Ladysmith Black Mambazo (@therealmambazo) January 29, 2018  Shabalala, 76, was raised in the apartheid era on a white farm in KwaZulu-Natal province. He began singing after being inspired by dreams which eventually took on Christian themes. As he retired from recording, Shabalala created a foundation to promote isicathamiya singing to children. The Recording Academy, which administers the top prizes in US music, has long showered love on Ladysmith Black Mambazo, which has been nominated 19 times. The group was also nominated Sunday for Children’s Album but did not win. WE WON THE GRAMMY AWARD FOR BEST WORLD MUSIC ALBUM!! SHAKA ZULU REVISITED. Our 5th Grammy Award. Such an honor. Thank U Grammy Awards. Thank U fans and friends. Thank U South Africa!! pic.twitter.com/1lsqGQiM23 — Ladysmith Black Mambazo (@therealmambazo) January 28, 2018  When we won our Grammy this year… pic.twitter.com/5vRuB8UhBj — Ladysmith Black Mambazo (@therealmambazo) January 29, 2018  Ten-year-old Keegan Baker is so passionate about the Zulu culture that he wears his traditional attire as often as he can, his mother says. A video of Keegan has gone viral on Facebook. In it he is seen dancing and singing to two Zulu songs for his mother and her… March 10, 2016 LAST NIGHT'S 20th SA Music Awards confirmed that this is Mafikizolo's world, and the rest of the industry has a challenge to dethrone them. The duo of Nhlanhla Nciza and Theo Kgosinkwe took home seven Sama gongs in total, to cap off a stellar 12 months, and very few can… April 29, 2014 A PERFORMANCE fit for a king – or in this case, a queen, three princes and a duchess or two. South African a cappella group The Soil will be performing for Queen Elizabeth and members of the royal family on Commonwealth Day on Monday. The Soil, who won best produced… March 6, 2015