The gang of men who allegedly robbed the Concord Bakery in Despatch was arrested in Port Elizabeth today. The men, aged between 23 and 39 years, were arrested at various houses in the Bethelsdorp and surrounding areas today (17/01/18). The bakery was robbed at about 3am on Tuesday while it was being opened for the day. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said the gang approached two staff members who were opening the door and threatened them with firearms. “Flying Squad together with other branches of the police received a tip-off on the location of the suspects,” she said. “Shortly after midnight, the first arrest was made when police raided a house. Thereafter, another three people were arrested at other houses in the nearby area.” Swart added that the getaway vehicle, a bakkie, was also found parked at one of the robbers houses. “In addition to the vehicle being located, we also recovered the safe which was stolen as well as some of the money. One firearm as well as a toy firearm was also found during the raids,” she added. Detectives were still interrogating the men to determine if more people were involved. All four men are due to appear in the Uitenhage Magistrate’s Court on Friday for armed robbery. Despatch police have launched a search for a group of suspects who robbed a Main Road business on Tuesday morning. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said the incident happened at about 3am. “It is alleged that the complainant and his co-workers were busy unlocking the door of the bakery when… January 16, 2018 A man with a firearm on a bus was arrested in Despatch yesterday. A second firearm was later found on the bus and sent for forensic testing. Police had received a tip-off about a man with a gun on an Algoa Bus vehicle at about 6.30am, police spokeswoman Captain Gerda… July 21, 2016 ADDITIONAL charges could be brought against two Uitenhage men after they pleaded guilty to a charge of burglary yesterday. Siviwe Noxele, 25, and Vusumzi Ntube, 32, were arrested after they broke into Handhaaf Primary School, Levyvale, on Sunday night. They pleaded guilty at their first appearance in the Uitenhage Magistrate's… November 20, 2014