Complaints of judicial misconduct are finally going to be heard against retired Judge Nkola Motata‚ who was convicted of drunk driving after crashing into a wall. A tribunal convened by the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) will probe complaints that he used racist language at the crash scene and breached judicial ethics by putting an untrue defence before the court during his drunk driving trial. The hearing will begin on Wednesday. Motata crashed his Jaguar into the wall of a home in Hurlingham‚ Johannesburg‚ in the early hours of January 6 2007. He allegedly made racist comments at the scene of the accident. Following his conviction in 2009 and a fine‚ two complaints were laid against him, one by minority rights group AfriForum and another by senior counsel Gerrit Pretorius. AfriForum complained that his comments at the scene had been racist‚ while Pretorius said he had breached judicial ethics by presenting a defence that he knew to be untrue. A complaint of judicial misconduct could result in the impeachment of Motata. – TimesLIVE The Judicial Service Commission (JSC) has shut down claims by drunk-driving Judge Nkola Motata that the tribunal it appointed to help discipline him is unlawful. Motata has been on special leave since he crashed his Jaguar into the wall of a Johannesburg home in 2007 while drunk and is challenging… March 13, 2017 The matter will be placed on the agenda for the next sitting of the Judicial Service Commission for consideration," said justice spokesman Tlali Tlali on Monday. "We are alive to the need to have this resolved as soon as possible," he added. Tlali was responding to a report in The… February 28, 2011 Social media law expert Emma Sadleir believes “personal capacity” does not exist on social media and that South Africa's judges should avoid and disassociate themselves from comments that are racist or sexist. Saldleir’s comment comes in the wake of Johannesburg High Court Judge Mabel Jansen’s alleged racist utterances. Jansen this… May 10, 2016