Speaking at an event commemorating struggle hero Joe Slovo‚ SACP Secretary General Blade Nzimande stated that “corporate state capture is treason actually”‚ according to the SACP’s Twitter feed. Nzimande further said that the tripartite alliance should not blame the judiciary when it goes against the ruling alliance.  This stands in contrast to President Jacob Zuma’s statement at the ANC’s national conference‚ where he called for the party to expel members who take the mother body to court. Zuma had a torrid 2017 in South Africa’s courts‚ culminating in the Constitutional Court ruling that parliament had not properly held him to account after a 2016 ruling that found Zuma had failed to uphold‚ defend and respect the Constitution. Nzimande also criticised Zuma for appealing the high court’s ruling‚ also in December‚ stating that he must institute a judicial commission of inquiry within 30 days. This judge heading this commission would be chosen by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng‚ rather than Zuma himself.  President Jacob Zuma should distance himself from the controversial Gupta family. This is the view of South African Communist Party (SACP) leader and Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande. Nzimande said during an interview with EWN that Zuma should distance himself from the family for his own sake. "We would like… June 17, 2016   DA leader Mmusi Maimane believes SACP Secretary General Blade Nzimande was axed as Minister of Higher Education on Tuesday because he "failed to toe the Zuma line" just like former finance minister Pravin Gordhan. In a surprise move‚ Zuma announced his second cabinet reshuffle this year‚ firing former Higher… October 17, 2017 Zuma, speakers call for workers to support ANC, tripartite alliance LEGISLATION protecting workers’ rights would not have been brought about without the tripartite alliance‚ ANC president Jacob Zuma said yesterday. Addressing the main Cosatu Workers’ Day celebration in Mamelodi‚ Gauteng‚ Zuma issued an appeal for the electorate to retain the… May 2, 2016