ANC Youth League national executive committee (NEC) member Bavelile Hlongwa has told ANC Women’s League president Bathabile Dlamini and her top brass that they should step aside and allow young women to lead. Hlongwa was speaking on Thursday night at the Young Women’s Dialogue at the East London City Hall‚ where she told Dlamini and her executive that some of them should be resting at home. Hlongwa also lashed out at the Women’s League for failing to deliver Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma at the party’s national elective conference in Nasrec. Instead‚ she said‚ women were divided because of men. “We are tired … Some of you should be resting at home because you are old and your knees cannot carry you no more‚ but you don’t want to give us space and we are going to confront you as well‚” charged Hlongwa to Dlamini and some of her NEC members at the top table. “The ANC Women’s League is very behind in the struggle and if you don’t give us the baton‚ fighting patriarchy in the ANC will not succeed. You have failed to give young women a chance to learn from you.” Leaders to drive ANC’s election campaign in Bay THE ANC Women’s League’s top brass will spend the next two weeks in Nelson Mandela Bay drumming up support for the party ahead of next year’s local government elections.League president Bathabile Dlamini was in the Bay on Sunday and yesterday to discuss… December 8, 2015 Rhodes students question timing of ANCWL leader’s visit RHODES students shunned ANC Women’s League president Bathabile Dlamini yesterday when she visited to show solidarity with students who embarked on a week-long protest against rape and sexual assault on campus. Calling the visit a slap in the face, students asked where… April 27, 2016 BATHABILE Dlamini has a tough job on her hands. The newly elected ANC Women’s League president and Social Development Minister has already set out the league’s ambitious goal of lobbying for a woman to succeed President Jacob Zuma and lead the ruling party, come 2017. To many women in the… August 10, 2015