For most of us, the annual Christmas-to-New-Year festive season has us focused on two time perspectives. One is a birth event that took place some 2 000 years ago and the other is the next 365-day circumnavigation of the sun – that thing we call a “year”. The mix of past and future perspectives naturally leads to an emphasis on what we hold dear – families and friends: relationships with those we care about. We’ll travel hundreds of kilometres, spend hours preparing homes and meals, and spend small fortunes on gifts – all just to be in close proximity with those special people for moments of connection. And next year this time we’ll do the same. Except this Christmas and New Year were slightly different for South Africans – the party that holds sway in parliament changed its leadership. It’s left some grimacing (the ex-president especially if one looked at his face when the results were announced), but, taking a leap of faith without any hard data to back up the view, the majority of South Africa is overjoyed at the possibility changing the leadership may bring us. Within eight years the hopes that underpinned the decision we took in 1994 have been badly bruised. Eight years is a long time. On a nondescript hill just outside of Uitenhage, there’s a bunch of people who literally sweep the earth and who have a somewhat different time horizon. A multi-national team of close on a dozen archaeologists or, more specifically, palaeontologists (people who go nuts about fossils), led by Prof Andy Herries, of Australia’s La Trobe University and with links to the Albany Museum, are scratching and shovelling dirt in an attempt to understand what our ancestors were doing some 50 000 (and millions more) years ago. At the Acheulian (Early Stone Age) site that rates alongside the internationally significant Sterkfontein and Pinnacle Point sites, the team are uncovering stone axes and tree stumps that get the palaeontological world in a frenzy. This, in our backyard! Who would have guessed that Nelson Mandela Bay would be on the global map of significant human remains and that our ancestors have been hanging around for such a long while? As you stare at your rapidly diminishing bank balance in your post-shop-‘till-you-drop recovery mode, and begin to grumpily think about how the state and others spend your taxes, the question you may be asking yourself is: why? Why spend time and money brushing away dirt, carefully bagging and plotting each little item, orientating the digs to the north, and then writing up and publishing the results in articles that the ordinary Christmas shopper will never find in any glossy magazine? It’s all about perspective. In our repeat loops of 60 minutes/24 hours/seven days/52 weeks we become lost in the immediacy of it all. For Herries and his team of doctoral, and other aspiring dirt-fundis, their work centres around one critical factor – a thing called “in situ”. A chipped rock found on the surface is interesting; found buried in its original position among the layers of soil that demarcate bygone eras, the knapped (deliberately chipped) handaxe becomes significant. The hominid remains only have relevance when they are found in situ; in context. It’s as relevant an insight in understanding our political and social mengelmoes of present. To understand our country’s current president, you have to understand the man Jacob Zuma in situ. Similarly should Cyril Ramaphosa succeed him as president of South Africa, we need to understand he, too, occurs within a context and as much as we’d wish him to, he’s unlikely to repeat the walking-on-water feat of some 2 000 years ago. Amanzi Springs (the Uitenhage site at which the dig is taking place) was first excavated in the early 1960s and then lay dormant for more than 50 years until Herries, in collaboration with others, began working on it again in 2015. Palaeontologists and their ilk will often work a site for years before producing a peer-reviewed paper on a single stone tool found in situ. It takes years of painstaking, detailed work to produce a single piece of the broader puzzle about how our ancestors lived. It’s a slow production line; no modern-day brand manager would invest any resources in a production process that’s slower than a snail and produces mere slivers. It’s no wonder the site and team are (unfortunately) under- resourced. The modern world we live in is geared towards immediate results. Our ancestors’ world was the opposite, they would have spent days shaping a handaxe with great skill and care. Again we have something to learn from palaeontology: can we, as a nation, expect to undo centuries of racial relationships in a mere 24 years? Our modern need for immediacy must be balanced against the patience of our ancestors – value is not created overnight, but comes from a long period of small actions that in time create the equivalent of a knapped tool that will last generations. Rather than demanding grand scale changes of any incoming leadership, perhaps it’s better to chip away, making sure we create something of lasting value without destroying the core? And how does the team know how old the piece of rock they hold is? They establish it by means of archaeomagnetic dating. Here’s where palaeontology goes hi-tech. The earth is essentially a big magnet, with a north and south pole, that aligns magnetic fields along specific and consistent patterns. When rocks are formed (especially when heated) the mineral bits within align permanently to how the magnetic fields at that time are orientated. We know that the poles wander because of shifts in the earth’s mineral core and – here’s the mind-blowing, jaw-dropping aspect of it all – the poles have shifted (north to south and vice versa) numerous times in the earth’s history. So by studying the magnetic patterns imbedded in the rock you can date it by matching it to magnetic patterns of that time. Yep, that means Nelson Mandela Bay has visited the northern hemisphere several times and we probably had snowy Christmases at several points in the past. What’s even more significant is that humanity has survived these pole shifts. We have literally had our world turned upside down and lived to tell the tale. So the pole shifts we’ve experienced from PW Botha to Nelson Mandela to Zuma, and which keep us all awake at night, are relatively minor blips in comparison to what our ancestors have had to live through. We are here today because they endured. As we look to 2018, we may want to take a moment to reflect on the immediacy of our lives, to recognise that value is created over time, that perspective (especially that gained from examining our ancestors’ lives) cannot be measured in monetary worth, and that without knowing where we fit – our in situ – we lose sight of our own significance and fall into the trap of thinking we’re the be-all and end-all. We’re not. Humanity has been around for a while and if we’ve survived cataclysmic events, there’s a good chance we can still build a better South Africa, knap by knap. Note: any technical errors in the above is due to the author’s unfinished knowledge, it’s a slow process! With thanks to Herries and his team. CHRISTMAS came early for some shack dwellers yesterday. An 89-year-old grandmother was among 40 residents to become first-time homeowners when Human Settlements Minister Lindiwe Sisulu handed over much-anticipated houses in Port Elizabeth’s Walmer township. Nontuthuzelo Sam, of Q Section, was overjoyed with her two-roomed house, part of a low-cost housing… December 23, 2015 As we head into the festive season rush, where every shop holds its breath that year-end bonuses are sufficiently fat to ensure that shoppers spend with abandon, where those fortunate enough to have credit cards swipe with their eyes closed and fingers crossed, it seems a little out of place… December 5, 2017 HER well-deserved summer break starts today but it will really be a winter trip, as she and her boyfriend leave for the US today on a month-long holiday. "We'll be spending Christmas in New York, New Year in Texas and after that will head to Florida to visit Disneyworld. It's… December 24, 2012