While a number of Nelson Mandela Bay matric pupils are anticipating positive individual results, they do not believe the Eastern Cape can climb out of its rut of poor performance. After 12 years of schooling, tens of thousands of Eastern Cape matrics will wait with bated breath today, as the final few hours pass before they discover whether or not their final year has been a success. Molly Blackburn High School matriculant Sinethemba Koko, 19, said: “It all comes down to this. All of the years of work will be on show in the newspaper. “I think myself and my classmates have done well – we worked hard throughout the year and it will show in our results.” Gelvandale High School matriculant Donovan Koen, 18, said the province was too poor to compete with the rest of the country. “We don’t have all the benefits some schools in the other provinces have. “I went to a good school and I am sure we will have good results, but there are a lot of other schools that are struggling,” he said. However, some Bay principals remained optimistic for both the district and the province leading up to the release of the matric results. Loyiso High School principal Lulama Hopa said: “I definitely think we as a district will improve. And we could even move up a position in the provincial rankings because of the type of support we received from the department last year. “We received material, extra tuition and a lot more support last year and it had a big impact on teaching and learning.” Paterson High School principal Dr Sivan Pillay said: “As a district, we have performed fairly consistently over the last few years. And I believe the results will illustrate that.” Final exams mean thousands can now look forward to the rest of their lives The end of the exhausting six-week National Senior Certificate examinations, which officially draw to a close today, was marked by jubilant scenes at schools around the Bay yesterday as thousands of matrics celebrated the end of… November 28, 2017 Pearson High School matriculant Hanne Mertens outshone all the stars during an evening of glitz and glamour in East London, claiming the title of top matriculant in the province. Hanne, 17, from Port Elizabeth, hesitated for a moment as her name was called at the 2016 top matric achievers gala… January 6, 2017 MEC admits systematic weaknesses major cause AS the Eastern Cape comes to grips with the dismal 56.8% matric pass rate, Nelson Mandela Bay has little to cheer about with a shock drop in its pass rate. The Bay’s pass rate of 66% is a decline of 8.3 percentage points on 2014. Only eight… January 7, 2016