An open letter to ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa: I write to you as a white, proudly South African male who spent 30 years in the Transkei, where I remain deeply involved and invested. As you know we went through several changes of government over the years in the Transkei and I’d like to share some of my learnings that might assist you in decision-making. You are the chosen king. You have a team that maybe you would not have chosen in the first place, however, you need to play the hand that you’ve got. There are allegations of corruption in many of the state-owned enterprises, government departments, municipalities, etc – it’s time to clean house. I urge you to deliver on the promises. Why should a Free State municipality pay R150 for 500ml of water? My suggestion is that once you are in office [as president of the country], consider recalling some of the ministers and deputy ministers who were not dismissed for lack of competence. There are several ex-rainbow nation directors-general and deputy directors-general and the like who were effectively worked out of their positions for being too efficient – they still have a lot to offer. Consider some of the multinational corporations such as Barlows, Old Mutual, historic Transnet and others. Get a list of their former senior rainbow nation staff, they too would only be too glad to help. I’m sure that by now some of the captains of industry have called you and offered their assistance. Maybe they should consider seconding some of their up-and-coming general managers for a three- or four-year period to help you stabilise and clean up activities. Don’t be shy to call on some of the banking groups. They are deeply committed to South Africa and would like to see stability going forward. To quote [retired industrialist] Brand Pretorius, we need a different kind of capitalist who is cognisant of all the challenges facing our country – we need capitalists with a social conscience. Turning to your top six, some of them have issues that need to be addressed. Ace Magashule needs to come clean on his dairy project and donations. Some others also have issues. They need to give you their firm commitment that they are going to support you in trying to regenerate South Africa and not continue with what has prevailed in state-owned enterprises and government departments. You’ve got issues with SARS and these need to be addressed. We were once the darling of the world and admired for our tax collection ethic, this has degenerated into a smokescreen. In the process, senior staff who are committed to the development of the country have been forced to leave. I urge you to pass a law which limits any suspension of public officials to a period of six months. During that period the disciplinary process needs to be followed, and either the person reinstated or the consequences of the disciplinary process followed through. Also consider bringing back the training colleges. Our economy is such that we are not able to absorb the graduates coming out of the various universities. There is, however, a dire need for artisans, electricians, shutter hands, basic bookkeepers and accounting technicians. Consider bringing back these facilities to satisfy the thirst for work. Do not let a major export be our rainbow nation talent. I’m sure there will be many other issues you will need to apply your mind to. I believe, by taking firm control on the corporate and moral rudder, you will, in a very short period, turn South Africa into the power house that it should be and lead us as we get back into those heady days of 6% growth. After all no one owes us a living! Best wishes for your endeavours. "INCOMPETENT managers could be axed" (October 1) – these are the words of Pravin Gordhan. Now where have I heard those words before? I've always had some respect for Gordhan when he was still finance minister and impressive were his budget speeches when he, cool and calm as a man… October 6, 2014 E-mail your letter to The Herald I HAVE been following responses by municipal spokesman Mthubanzi Mniki on various topics raised by residents of NMBM published on numerous occasions in The Herald. This is not a personal matter as I do not know the man. However, it is stated that he… February 4, 2014 TIGHTEN my belt? Here's my quid pro quo for the government. Many of us are already tightening belts to the extent that we are now adding new holes for the buckle hook. We are not eating out much, we look for grocery specials wherever we can and meat is a… October 29, 2014