A video showing a man who appears to be Nelson Mandela Bay ANC councillor Andile Lungisa striking DA councillor Rano Kayser with a glass jug has been presented as evidence in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court. Lungisa and Gamalihleli Maqula appeared in the court on Monday where they are charged with assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm following an incident in council chambers on October 27, 2016. Maqula is accused of stabbing DA chief whip Senekal in the back with a sharp object. They have pleaded not guilty. The video was taken by DA PR councillor Renaldo Gouws who was the first state witness to testify. “I saw disruption taking place in the chamber. Someone was tapping his feet on the table. It was at that stage that I decided to take out my camera to record. Before this, I saw wrapped up piece of papers thrown into the air by ANC councillors seated on the right hand side of the house,” he said. “The speaker requested that one of ANC’s councillors leave the chamber and after refusal, pieces of papers were tossed into the air. That’s when I decided to take the video as evidence in case something should happen to me.” In the video which was played in court a group of people can be seen and heard chanting and singing as speaker Jonathan Lawack and other officials try in vain to bring calm. A person – said to be Lungisa – is seen striking at Kayser with a glass jug. Kayser tries to block the jug with his left hand but misses and the jug slams into the left side of his head. Kayser falls to the ground bleeding and unconscious. The case continues. Two Nelson Mandela Bay ANC councillors have failed in their attempt to have charges of assault withdrawn against them. Andile Lungisa, 39, and Gamalihleli Maqula, 28, who face charges of assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm following a council brawl last year, will now have to stand trial… September 15, 2017 As Nelson Mandela Bay ANC councillor Andile Lungisa appeared briefly in court yesterday for the assault of a fellow councillor during a brawl last year, it emerged that his counter claim that he had also been beaten would not be prosecuted. The cases involving Lungisa, 39, and Ward 19 councillor… January 18, 2017 The assault cases against two ANC Nelson Mandela Bay councillors have been postponed to March for further investigation. Andile Lungisa and Gamalihleli Maqula, accused of assaulting two DA councillors in a council brawl in November last year, appeared one after the other in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Tuesday… January 17, 2017