 Bra Hugh Masekela’s last wish to have a private funeral will be honoured‚ his family revealed at press conference on Thursday afternoon. Addressing the media for the first time since Bra Hugh’s death was confirmed on Tuesday morning‚ his son Sal Masekela said they were encouraged by the overwhelming messages of support from across the world. “I can say that for my entire family when you get the amount of love and just pure personal stories from people all over the world. The passion with which they loved this man is incredible. We can’t stop marveling at the passion with which the world continues to celebrate and mourn my father. We say thank you again.” He added that his father would have wanted people to jive and not cry during this time. Sal revealed that it was his father’s wish to have a private funeral for family and close friends‚ and that they would honour that. The family said that Bra Hugh instructed them to celebrate his life through his foundation and exhibitions that will be open to the public. “The funeral will be for close family and friends‚ this is what he wanted‚ anyone who wants to pay their respects can go to the various memorial events.” The family have not yet decided on when the funeral will take place but there will be at least three public memorial services. The main memorial service will be held on January 28 at UJ Soweto Campus. The family also plans to organise various international memorial services in Bra Hugh’s honour. Legendary musician Bra Hugh Masekela has died. Bra Hugh's family sent a statement confirming the news to the media. "After a protracted and courageous battle with prostate cancer, he passed peacefully in Johannesburg, South Africa surrounded by his family," read the statement. The musician's team released a statement in October… January 23, 2018 Interviewing Hugh Masekela after another print run of his acclaimed autobiography, Still Grazing ‚ Tymon Smith reported how even at the age of 76 (in 2015)‚ the trumpet legend was still calling bulls*** about weaves‚ land and language: It was a chilly‚ sunny day in May when I sat down… January 24, 2018 City mourns SA jazz legend Nelson Mandela Bay music personalities yesterday mourned, but also celebrated the life of the late great jazz trumpeter Hugh Masekela, 78, who died in Johannesburg yesterday morning. Masekela was internationally renowned for his Afro-jazz, bebop and funk compositions and performances as well as his outspoken… January 24, 2018