Honest chat and hard work put Ngidi back in cricket spotlight It took a few uncomfortable but honest conversations with coach Mark Boucher to turn an unfit Lungi Ngidi into a South African test bowler with a memorable wicket and run out debut at his SuperSport Park home ground. Ngidi, low on confidence and motivation after a stress fracture injury last year, said his conversations with Boucher‚ a change in lifestyle and an extended spell in the gym all contributed to his change of fortune. Ngidi said it was a dream come true to play for his country in this format but he also disclosed that he had to change his mindset and lifestyle to set himself on the path to full recovery. “The whole off season I was in the gym‚” he said. “I had to lose a lot of weight and I had to change my lifestyle. “I lost about 8kg and it feels good. “It was very difficult but it was worth it in the long run. “A lot of credit must also go to the trainer and physiotherapist at the Titans for work they did with me. “And the coach as well‚ we had some hard but honest chats behind closed doors which also helped me much in the long run‚” he said of his franchise coach Boucher‚ who is known for his nononsense approach. Ngidi‚ whose injury saw him miss the South Africa A tour to England last year after he had impressed on his T20 debut against Sri Lanka‚ said sitting out the tour was one of the biggest challenges of his career. “It was a challenge, coming from a high to a low in a short space of time‚” he said. “Being selected to play for South Africa and then getting injured, it was tough. “I thought I was doing all the right things but it was not going my way. “During my time away from the game I had a lot of time to reflect and now I realise that I am actually stronger than I thought.” Asked to reflect on the wicket of Parthiv Patel‚ he said it was another dream come true. “I had goose bumps,” Ngidi said “They way I took it‚ I was actually talking to Vern [Vernon Philander] about plans and strategy of how to take it and it happened exactly the same way we had talked about it. “That made me happy.” – TimesLIVE Don’t expect too much of him too soon, ex-Titans man warns Former Titans coach Rob Walter has urged the public not to expect too much and too soon from emerging Proteas fast bowler Lungi Ngidi. Walter‚ who gave Ngidi his franchise break more than a year ago at the Titans‚… January 25, 2017 Warriors coach Malibongwe Maketa and Titans counterpart Mark Boucher both insist the past means very little into their Ram Slam T20 Challenge semifinal showdown at SuperSport Park in Centurion tonight (6pm). Much has been made about the form of the two teams as well as their past history in the… December 13, 2017 Titans coach Mark Boucher has omitted premier Proteas fast bowler Dale Steyn from his squad for the Ram Slam T20 Challenge final against the Dolphins at SuperSport Park in Centurion today. Steyn took five wickets for the Titans in as many matches before he was sent back to Cape Town… December 16, 2017