The ANC wants parliament to sanction DA leader Mmusi Maimane for his role in factional fights roiling the City of Cape Town. It will ask parliament’s ethics committee to investigate Maimane and DA federal legal commission chairwoman Glynnis Breytenbach for being in possession of confidential city council forensic reports. The allegation relates to more than 1 000 files which became central to the fallout between mayor Patricia de Lille and the executive director in her office‚ Craig Kesson. The mayor accused Kesson of leaking the documents to the party after Breytenbach allegedly called officials of the city demanding more information about them. The accusations are still under dispute after a confidential report claimed it was, in fact, De Lille who supplied the documents‚ which she denies. In disputing a damning investigative report by attorneys Bowman Gilfillans‚ De Lille said she had a letter from Maimane in which he confirmed he did not get the reports from her. The ANC leader in the City of Cape Town‚ Xolani Sotashe‚ said yesterday the party’s MPs would be asked to raise the issue with parliament’s ethics committee and its chairman. He said the ANC was not happy with the behaviour of Maimane and Breytenbach. “Mmusi obtained a confidential report of the City of Cape Town via a wrong channel. The city council had not even seen the information.” The information he was referring to was not brought to the council‚ as the law required‚ and this was one of the reasons De Lille was being investigated by the city council. “In other words‚ [Maimane] stole information of another government sphere to use it for DA political agendas,” Sotashe alleged. “Breytenbach, as an MP‚ had no right to call officials of the City of Cape Town and [allegedly] threaten them‚ asking for more information.” He also criticised Maimane and DA federal executive chairman James Selfe for speaking about details in the Bowman Gilfillan report‚ which was still confidential. “How did they get access to that information and yet councillors in the City of Cape Town are restricted in talking about this thing openly to the public? “These are double standards.” The ANC also plans to ask the auditorgeneral to re-examine the City of Cape Town’s audit outcomes over several years in light of revelations about possible maladministration in the transport and urban development authority. ANC provincial chairman Khaya Magaxa said if the DA got rid of De Lille‚ her deputy‚ Ian Nielson‚ should also go. “They want to [protect] other people who are loyal to them‚ who are white like Ian Nielson [who was] the chair of the finance committee,” Magaxa said. “There is no money that would have been taken from the city coffers without the chairperson’s knowledge. “There is no way you can deal with Patricia and leave the deputy mayor.” Western Cape Democratic Alliance leader Patricia De Lille was today endorsed by her party to run for a second term as the City of Cape Town mayor in this year's local government elections. It came as no surprise as DA federal leader Mmusi Maimane announced that the party had decided… January 25, 2016 The DA inquiry into divisions in the party’s ruling caucus in Cape Town heard a string of accusations against mayor Patricia de Lille ranging from nepotism and intimidation to defeating the ends of justice. The investigation‚ launched in late September under the chairmanship of parliamentary chief whip John Steenhuisen‚ was… January 12, 2018 Cape Town’s city manager and transport commissioner are to face disciplinary action‚ while mayor Patricia de Lille faces a fresh probe of a cover-up she allegedly ordered. Achmat Ebrahim and Melissa Whitehead have been given seven days to provide reasons why they should not be suspended. Action against the two… January 6, 2018