Leading members of Germany’s Social Democrats voiced scepticism yesterday over a preliminary coalition agreement reached with Chancellor Angela Merkel’s conservatives, days after the hard-fought deal was hailed as a breakthrough. Berlin’s SPD mayor Michael Mueller said he was very critical about entering into another government with Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc after all three parties slumped to their worst results in decades in September’s election. “The same coalition with the same policies is not the right answer,” the centre-left politician told the Tagesspiegel daily, calling for further talks to win more concessions on key SPD demands. Party leaders on Friday announced after tortuous negotiations that they had signed off on a policy blueprint paving the way for formal coalition discussions to begin after months of paralysis in Europe’s top economy. In the 28-page document, the parties agreed to join France in a push to strengthen and reform the eurozone, to limit the influx of asylum seekers to Germany to about 200 000 a year, and to refrain from tax hikes. But Mueller lamented the SPD’s failure to secure a tax hike for the rich or a restructuring of the country’s two-tier healthcare system. Those concerns were echoed by the SPD’s Malu Dreyer, premier of Rhineland-Palatinate state, who also slammed the compromise to cap immigration. The migration stance outlined in the roadmap was very difficult for the SPD, she told the German newspaper group Funke Mediengruppe. The criticism will make for uncomfortable reading for SPD chief Martin Schulz, who has promised to give party members the last word on a third stint as Merkel’s junior coalition partner. In a sign of the difficulties ahead, SPD delegates at a regional party conference in Saxony-Anhalt on Saturday narrowly voted against starting formal coalition talks. The stakes will be higher next Saturday, when 600 party delegates will be asked to give the green light at a congress, followed by a final vote by more than 400 000 rank-and-file members. – AFP Germany's Angela Merkel began the tough task of trying to build a government yesterday after securing a fourth term as chancellor, urging the centre-left Social Democrats not to shut the door on a re-run of their “grand coalition”. Damaged by her decision two years ago to allow more than one… September 26, 2017 German Chancellor Angela Merkel emerged emboldened Monday from a surprise state poll triumph, as the hype around her main rival fizzled on its first test in a "super election year". With just six months to go until a general election in Europe's top economy in which Merkel is seeking a… March 27, 2017 Chancellor Angela Merkel could be facing a major political challenge with Sunday's election in the eastern German state of Saxony possibly becoming a launching pad for the anti-euro Alternative for Deutschland to secure seats in parliaments across the country. Chancellor Angela Merkel faces a fresh challenge to her traditional conservative… August 28, 2014