You’ve done the hard work – now it’s time to claim your matric fame through our new exam results website, brought to you in partnership with Damelin Correspondence College. If you’ve written matric this year and are eagerly awaiting the release of your results, click on http://matric.sowetanlive.co.za to sign up. There you can create a quick profile using your matric exam number. You can also upload a picture of yourself and tell us about your dreams for the future, along with other details. We’ve even tossed in a R6,000 cash prize to sweeten the deal for one lucky matriculant! When the results are released, we will link your result to your profile so that your achievement is no longer an anonymous number but something special linked to you and your plans. You can share it, boast about it or print it out and keep it for the future. We’ll even throw in some surprises for special achievements like multiple distinctions. You can only register a profile until January 4 2018 – the day before most of the National Senior Certificate results are released. So, what are you waiting for? It’s time to claim your matric fame. You’ve done the hard work – now it’s time to claim your matric fame through our new exam results web app. If you’ve written matric this year and are eagerly awaiting the release of your results, click on http://matric.sowetanlive.co.za. There you can create a quick profile using your matric exam… December 13, 2016 THE month to six weeks set aside for the matric exams requires a tenacity and focus from teens for which they are not always prepared. The relative freedom and change in routine of this period can be challenging, particularly as pupils pass the halfway mark of the exams and the… November 14, 2013 It's almost time for Grade 9 pupils to select subjects they want to take from next year until they write their final matric exams. While making the call is an exciting exercise for some, others struggle with the commitment, especially when they are not yet sure what they want to… April 19, 2017