African penguins‚ which are expected to be extinct by 2026 unless their decline is halted‚ can be helped by small no-fishing zones around their colonies‚ scientists say. Working with the South African government‚ researchers from the universities of Cape Town and Exeter‚ in the UK‚ tested bans on catching “forage fish” such as sardines and anchovies – key prey for the penguins – from 20km around four breeding islands off the Cape and Port Elizabeth. The body condition and survival of chicks improved when the no-fishing zones were in place. More research is needed‚ but the scientists said the fishing closures should continue. “The amount of forage fish caught worldwide is increasing and – although the effects are disputed – the impact on marine ecosystems could be severe‚” Richard Sherley‚ of the Environment and Sustainability Institute at the University of Exeter, said. “Forage fish are a key link in the food chain as they eat plankton and are preyed on by numerous species including tuna‚ dolphins‚ whales and penguins.” Researchers examined colonies at Dassen Island‚ 10km west of Yzerfontein north of Cape Town; Robben Island off Cape Town; and St Croix Island‚ home to the world’s largest African penguin colony‚ and Bird Island in Algoa Bay. Innovative system to protect sardines they feed on is paying off, writes Guy Rogers SINCE 2004 the global population of African penguins has declined 70% – but the good news is their numbers have stabilised in Algoa Bay thanks to an innovative system introduced to protect the sardines they feed… February 22, 2016 A seized Chinese fishing trawler was escorted into Cape Town harbour by a coastal protection vessel on Saturday and was expected to be searched for evidence of illegal fishing. It is one of nine vessels suspected by the Department of Agriculture‚ Forestry and Fisheries of fishing illegally in South African… May 15, 2016 Concern over destruction of marine environment , writes Guy Rogers AFTER a five-year hiatus, purse seine fishermen sprang into action in Algoa Bay recently to take advantage of a flurry of sardine activity. Several catches were made before the shoal disappeared only to be sighted a few days later off… May 30, 2016