Universities South Africa (USAF) says that all higher learning institutions in the country will allow walk-ins and late applications by prospective students. However‚ queuing in the sun is not the recommended approach. The organisation representing universities in South Africa met with the Department of Higher Education on Monday to discuss strategies on how to curb potential chaos for the 2018 academic year. Professor Ahmed Bawa‚ USAF’s chief executive officer‚ said “the phenomenon of walk-ins is not new‚” therefore they already have a system in place for late applications. “Universities will advise students on a working system they can use to get entry.” However‚ he also noted: “We have the national centre for late applications‚ a reliable system that will ensure that students are matched to available spaces. It’s the right route to take and we urge students to use it. Students must understand that all of this is so they don’t stand on long queues in the sun. “We are also trying to avoid situations similar to that of the University of Johannesburg in the past where a mother unfortunately lost her life [due to a stampede]” Bawa said. In response to the mounting pressure for institutions to allow walk-ins and admit late applicants‚ USAF said that all “universities will allow late applications and walk-ins if space is available”. Universities will not be adjusting their set enrolment target. “They cannot change the number of students they intended to enrol as there are factors (affecting) that. Firstly‚ how many students the university enrols depends on its level of infrastructure. Secondly‚ they must consider their subsidy money‚” said Bawa. A number of universities in the country saw walk-ins on Monday after the Economic Freedom Fighters Student Command president Phuti Keetse called on an action plan to invade institutions last week. Accepted applicants will be assessed for full subsidies – higher education minister Only prospective students who have been offered a place to study at a tertiary institution will be considered for the fully subsidised education announced by President Jacob Zuma last month‚ Higher Education Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize has said. Briefing… January 5, 2018 Overloaded Eastern Cape universities being forced to turn away thousands of applicants Eastern Cape universities will be forced to turn away thousands of prospective first-year students, even if they received good matric results. At Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University (NMMU) alone, spokeswoman Zandile Mbabela said they had received more than 112… January 5, 2017 The EFF has reiterated that it wants every potential student to be registered as party members visit universities and colleges across the Eastern Cape this week, regardless of whether or not the institutions have space. Eastern Cape EFF convener Yazini Tetyana said on Saturday that they would, over the next… January 8, 2018