Two months after clinching the Miss Universe crown‚ Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters will return to South Africa for a week-long celebration. A sparkling Nel-Peters became the second South African in 39 years to clinch the Miss Universe title, when she was crowned at the glitzy pageant in Las Vegas on November 26. Since then, she has moved into a fancy New York apartment and has been flying the South African flag high. Nel-Peters is due to arrive in South Africa on Wednesday next week and will be welcomed home with parties at OR Tambo‚ Cape Town International and a street parade in Sedgefield, where she grew up. “I can’t begin to express my gratitude and how proud I am to represent our country as Miss Universe,” she said. “Being a global ambassador is as much a responsibility as it is an honour. “Our nation comprises many different backgrounds and cultures‚ which is one of the many things that makes me immensely proud to be a South African. “I am very excited to celebrate this achievement with my people, in the spirit of Mzansi.” During her visit‚ Nel-Peters will also visit victims of the Knysna fires and will host workshops in Soweto and Cape Town. The beauty has been using her Unbreakable campaign to empower and help women handle life-threatening situations including assault‚ toxic relationships and sexual harassment. Earlier this month, Nel-Peters rubbed shoulders with Hollywood’s A-listers at the Golden Globes award ceremony. She also wore black in support of the “Times Up” initiative to combat and raise awareness about systemic sexual harassment‚ abuse and discrimination across industries. “I decided I want to support the Time’s Up campaign,” Nel-Peters said on social media. “I think it is so amazing – and I take my hat off to every woman who has had the courage to come forward and tell their story. “It’s not just a campaign‚ they created a legal fund to help fund women who have been victims and who have been affected.” “I stand with solidarity with women around the world.” The news of being crowned Miss Universe on Sunday night in Las Vegas is still setting in for Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters. The 22-year-old beat over 90 contestants to take the crown‚ only the second South African to ever win the Miss Universe pageant. In a voice note sent to TshisaLIVE she… November 28, 2017 Miss South Africa Demi-Leigh Nel-Peters was crowned Miss Universe on Sunday night in a star-studded ceremony in Las Vegas‚ making her only the second South African to ever win the crown. The second runner up was Miss Jamaica and the first runner-up was Miss Colombia. She was a firm-favourite going… November 27, 2017 Eating NY cheese cake on a bench in Times Square.... Bucket list item  #missuniverse #newyork #cheesecake #timessquare A post shared by Demi-Leigh | Miss Universe (@demileighnp) on Nov 29, 2017 at 9:34am PST From being crowned Miss SA‚ to having fellow contestants accuse the pageant of bias and being… December 4, 2017