It is time his team starts getting the recognition it deserves after their impressive start to the second half of the Absa Premiership, Chippa United coach Teboho Moloi said. The Chilli Boys seem to have plugged the gap with their new signings and now consider themselves among the big teams in the league. They have also promoted three players from their development side to solidify the attacking brand of football that the team has undertaken to play. Gregory Damons, Ayanda Manengele and Xolani Mahola were all introduced to the media at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium yesterday and have already started training with the first team. “It is very important that there is a continuous link between the first and development sides,” Moloi said. “We want to start working hand in hand with our development side going forward. “The team has been playing an exciting brand of soccer that has been awesome to watch and it is nice to get some young guys in the squad. “It is vital that Chippa United starts getting the recognition it deserves because it has come a long way. “We want to try and promote more youngsters to the first team, because without them we would not have a place to unearth talent. “The promotion will also give them an opportunity to work really hard and prove themselves within the team. “The promotion should also motivate the other players to start pulling up their socks to be awarded an opportunity to be in the first team. “Ultimately, we want these young players to realise their full potential and fulfil their dreams of playing for the first team. “This is also a sign that our technical team is doing a good job.” Moloi was also excited by newly signed Linda ‘Destruction Boy’ Mntambo’s red hot performance in last week’s game against AmaZulu. He is hoping the former Jomo Cosmos midfielder will cement a position in the starting lineup for the team. “He is a player who knows what he wants in life and his football career,” Moloi said. “But it is still too early for me to start putting pressure on him. “I want him to enjoy his football and continue playing to the best of his ability. “The most important thing for him at this stage is to continue playing with the tactics that have the team’s interests at heart and not play for his personal glory. “He adds an element of individual brilliance to the team. “He is a box-to-box player and I do not want to restrict him. “I want him to understand what is required from him and bring in his own flavour to blend with the team play.” NEWLY appointed Chippa United caretaker soccer coach Teboho Moloi said his call-up to the Chilli Boys did not come as a surprise. Moloi was announced as the team’s caretaker coach by Chippa boss Siviwe Mpengesi yesterday, replacing Dan Malesela, who was fired this week. “I was involved with the team… September 15, 2017 Chippa United want to consolidate their top eight position on the Absa Premiership table with their new signings, as they start the second half of the season against Amazulu FC on Sunday. Chilli Boys chairman Siviwe “Chippa” Mpengesi named the signing of four players last month as Thabo Rakhale, 27,… January 4, 2018 After four consecutive draws, Chippa United coach Teboho Moloi has a two-week international break to reboot and sharpen his players. Moloi will be looking to kick start some winning momentum in the team when they play their next league game, against Maritzburg United at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in… October 3, 2017