Hundreds of people were shot dead or fatally stabbed in the Eastern Cape between Christmas and New Year’s Day. Of the 449 deaths, 298 occurred over the Christmas weekend and 151 this past weekend, provincial health spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said yesterday. The Mthatha morgue received the most bodies – 43 – over the New Year’s weekend, followed by Aliwal North (18) and Butterworth (16). In Port Elizabeth, the Gelvandale morgue received 12 bodies with either stab or gunshot wounds and New Brighton six, while Mount Road in Port Elizabeth and Grahamstown received a combined 10. Of the 298 stabbed or shot over the Christmas weekend, 73 were in the Mthatha, Ngcobo, Qumbu, Tsolo and the Libode and Ngqeleni areas, Kupelo said. Thirty-seven of the deaths were in Butterworth, 24 in Mbizana, 20 in Grahamstown and 18 in Aliwal North. In Port Elizabeth, 18 people were killed in Gelvandale over Christmas weekend, seven in New Brighton, 11 in Mount Road, eight in GraaffReinet and 13 in Lusikisiki. Meanwhile, the unofficial number of people who died on Eastern Cape roads since December 1 is now more than 100. This includes four people who died in separate accidents in Sterkspruit and Jeffreys Bay on New Year’s Day. The official death toll will be released by Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi next week. Transport spokeswoman Khuselwa Rantjie said in the Sterkspruit incident, three people died when two bakkies crashed head-on near the Thabalitshuba township. In the Jeffreys Bay accident, a man, 32, died when the vehicle he was in crashed on the R102 near the town at about 11.30pm. “It is believed that the driver of a VW Golf lost control of the vehicle and it overturned,” police spokesman Sergeant Majola Nkohli said. “One of three occupants, Sibusiso Jikeka, died at the scene, while the others were taken to hospital. Transport MEC Weziwe Tikana said yesterday most of the crashes were the result of human error. – DispatchLIVE Nelson Mandela Bay hospital and ambulance personnel are bracing themselves for another horrendous weekend after alcohol abuse, violence and accidents flooded the city’s emergency rooms and mortuaries over the Christmas weekend. Eastern Cape health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said alcohol abuse had likely contributed to both the road accidents and… December 30, 2017 Law-enforcement agencies praised for reducing traffic fatalities THE Eastern Cape road death toll for the Easter weekend is still climbing as officials tally up the final count which is expected to be released by Transport Minister Dipuo Peters today. By late yesterday, preliminary figures from Thursday to Monday show that… April 8, 2015 State mortuaries in the Eastern Cape are overflowing with bodies of drowning, electrocution, suicide, murder and car accident victims as the number of unnatural deaths has sky-rocketed since the start of the festive season. In the Port Elizabeth region, there are 97 unnatural death cases, with 47 of them stabbing… December 29, 2016