A Port Elizabeth gangster has been sentenced to life imprisonment as well as a further 25 years after ballistic and forensic evidence tied him to a gun used in a murder. David “Snake” Karelse, 24, was convicted on charges of murder, attempted murder, illegal possession of a firearm and illegal possession of ammunition in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Thursday. Karelse, who is linked to the Upstand Dogs gang, was arrested in April 2016 during a campaign to clamp down on gangs called Operation Lockdown. The operation targeted gangs in the Gelvandale and Bethelsdorp areas. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said Karelse was linked to the murder of Shannon van Sensie, 27, who was affiliated to the Dustlife gang, in April 2016. “Van Sensie and friends were drinking inside a shop when Karelse appeared and started shooting. No one else except Van Sensie was wounded. Karelse then ran away. “The following day police arrested Karelse for possession of a magazine and a drill bit.” On the day after that police found a firearm at the back of a house in Zimdahl Street. “An inquiry docket was opened at the time as no one had been arrested. The firearm was sent for ballistic and forensic testing and the results positively connected Karelse and the firearm to the murder of Van Sensie and attempted murder of the others,” Naidu said. The commander of the Mount Road cluster, Major General Thembisile Patekile, commended detectives for their thorough investigations. “These sentences were as a result of an integrated approach by the different units within the criminal justice system. “It is with pride that we see our members work extremely hard to remove criminals from our streets, and to ensure the safety of our citizens.” THREE suspected gangsters will spend another night behind bars after briefly appearing in the Port Elizabeth Magistrates court today. The men were arrested over the weekend for allegedly being involved in separate gang-related incidents in Port Elizabeth’s northern areas. Their arrests form part of Operation Lockdown, aimed at curbing the… April 5, 2016 Notorious Port Elizabeth criminal  has been sentenced in the city’s high court to life plus 32 years’ imprisonment. Malgas‚ who was arrested on 15 December 2015‚ was convicted on Tuesday on numerous charges. According to police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg‚ the charges against the 24-year-old included attempted murder (six… June 1, 2016 Cops make early morning swoop on homes in KwaDwesi following tip-off Two suspected triggermen linked to a double murder that took place three months ago were arrested yesterday. Police are not naming the men, both 21, until they have been charged in court. The early morning arrests followed a joint… May 11, 2017