The Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (Icasa) has confirmed to the Democratic Alliance that it will be conducting an investigation into Multichoice. This follows a complaint lodged by the DA in November last year requesting that Icasa conduct an inquiry into payments made by Multichoice to ANN7 and the SABC‚ allegedly in exchange for political influence over government policy on Digital Migration‚ in its favour. DA shadow minister of communications Phumzile Van Damme said on Sunday that Icasa had indicated in a letter that the matter had been referred to its Compliance and Consumer Affairs division for investigation. “The DA is pleased that Icasa has agreed that the payments require investigation. “South Africa deserves to know whether the payments were indeed above board‚ as Multichoice has maintained‚” Van Damme added. She said the DA believed that while companies like Multichoice should be allowed the space to do business and create much-needed employment‚ their conduct must at all times be within the bounds of the law‚ in line with business ethics and in an environment where competition was not stifled. “There is no issue with companies lobbying for policy positions through debate‚ but a situation where policy is bought cannot be allowed. It is tantamount to policy capture. “The DA looks forward to further engaging with Icasa on this matter for clarity to be provided once and for all.” Pay-TV provider dismisses DA’s allegations of R100m paid to influence policy Top pay-TV provider MultiChoice has denied it paid R100-million in kickbacks to the SABC to gain political influence over digital migration of the public broadcaster‚ which posed a significant threat to the company’s revenue stream. On Tuesday‚ the DA’s… November 30, 2017 MultiChoice is under pressure to “come clean” about its contracts with Gupta-owned television news channel ANN7. Ongoing revelations contained in the Gupta leaks have revealed allegedly questionable payments by MultiChoice to ANN7 and the involvement of former communications minister Faith Muthambi. “Hiding behind confidentiality clauses and telling half-truths is no… November 27, 2017 South Africa’s leading pay TV service provider‚ Multichoice‚ is in the hot seat once more with new revelations from the Democratic Alliance over a R100-million a year plan to gain access to the SABC’s “political influence over digital migration”. In a statement on Tuesday‚ the DA’s Phumzile Van Damme said… November 29, 2017