ANC chairman hints at resignation of president at OR Tambo wreath-laying ceremony Emboldened by his election as ANC chairman‚ Gwede Mantashe used the wreath-laying ceremony at the grave of former ANC president O R Tambo yesterday to take a calculated swipe at President Jacob Zuma. The ceremony‚ which took place in Wattville‚ Benoni‚ comes days before Cyril Ramaphosa’s first January 8 statement as ANC president‚ which will take place in East London. Mantashe said the ANC had elected a president “who is rich and who has money. He is wealthy. He is rich. We elected a president who would not steal. If [he] steals, we will ask him‚ ‘why do you steal, because you have money?’” He criticised Zuma supporters who have repeatedly said the president was going nowhere. “When there is a leadership of the ANC there is a basic requirement that leadership must analyse the movement broadly,” he said. “Weakness of the last two or three years has been the personification of politics. We can’t talk personal politics‚ we must talk ANC. “There is nothing called a no-go area. We must allow the ANC to look into its values. We must enter painful areas and deal with them.” Mantashe told the crowd that Zuma’s supporters were abusing his name to cover for their own demeanours. “They must stop it because it is dangerous to the movement. It hurts Comrade Zuma,” he said. “People must not abuse his name to cover up their own demeanours. The ANC can’t be sitting on the fence and it must lead society. Leading society means we must enter painful areas.” Mantashe said the ANC must draw lessons from the life and times of Tambo. “He was the most distinguished leader of our movement. You earn that. You don’t need praise singers to say so‚” he said. “He kept the movement together during the most difficult times. We divide it during the easiest times.” He said Tambo had dealt with problems constructively and offered to resign during the ANC Morogoro conference in Tanzania in 1969. “If you can’t do the right thing‚ you must offer to resign. If you can’t do that‚ you are failing Oliver Tambo.” Mantashe’s comments come amid renewed calls for Zuma‚ who has been mired in controversies‚ to step down as president of the country. Mantashe said the biggest challenge facing the governing party was to save its reputation. “You can’t have an ANC that has a trust deficit between itself and the people. You can’t have an ANC that is synonymous with corruption.” SACP first deputy general-secretary Solly Mapaila said the ANC must not to be a tool to amass wealth for individuals. “We are happy with the outcome of the conference and the leadership that has been elected. “We will work together with anyone as long as all of us are pushing the ideas of the national democratic revolution‚” Mapaila said. The ANC-led alliance‚ which includes the SACP and labour federation Cosatu‚ must be transformed to meet the problems facing the people, he said. ANC national executive meeting declares ‘full confidence’ THE ANC has thrown its full support behind President Jacob Zuma despite calls for him to be recalled amid allegations of political interference by his business friends. Party secretary-general Gwede Mantashe confirmed last night that the topic of Zuma stepping down “never arose”… March 21, 2016 One day, when the history of South Africa is written, three men will be remembered for having sold their organisation, their people and their country down the river. Those three men are Cyril Ramaphosa, Gwede Mantashe and Zweli Mkhize – the deputy president, secretary-general and treasurer-general of the ANC respectively.… April 3, 2017 THE ANC’s national executive committee has washed its hands of President Jacob Zuma in the wake of the R246-million Nkandla upgrades scandal. ANC secretary-general Gwede Mantashe told a media briefing yesterday that there had been no need to dwell on the public protector’s Nkandla report at the party’s national executive… April 1, 2014