The wreckage of the light aircraft that went down in the Wild Coast region earlier this week has been found, officials confirmed on Friday. Chief of the Aeronautical Rescue Centre Santjie White said while the wreckage was found, no survivors could be accounted for. By late yesterday, the search had continued for the missing light aircraft piloted by Gonubie pilot John Waterson. “This morning the NSRI started the day searching the coastline between East London and Wavecrest with no results. “The briefing in the morning concentrated on ground rather than air as only a small area of concern was checked again. “It became apparent that the ground search would deliver better results due to the most probable area of detection being dense vegetation,” White said. According to police, the two-seater Savannah plane, with Waterson and one of his employees, known only as Gerald, on board, had been on a test flight and was returning from Morgan Bay towards a private landing strip in Gonubie, DispatchLIVE reported. “The Aeronautical Rescue Co-ordination Centre (ARCC) would like to thank the following roleplayers that assisted in the search: The South African Police Services, Aeromed, NRSI, Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre, ATNS and all the local pilots who volunteered their aircraft and time as well as other local volunteers assisting in the ground searched. “The ARCC wishes to thank everybody who selflessly participated in the success of the operation and conveys its sincerest condolences to the loved ones, families and friends of the lost aviators,” White said. A man has died after his light aircraft crashed in a game reserve near Mossel Bay in the Western Cape this morning. Emergency services found the wrecked aircraft in the bushes in the in Herbersdale area. A trail of debris had lead to the wreckage from where the plane had… May 11, 2016 A search and rescue mission is underway for a Gonubie man whose light aircraft went down in the Wild Coast area in the early hours of Thursday morning. The man is believed to be John Waterson. Provincial police spokeswoman Colonel Sibongile Soci said the search for the small aircraft will… January 25, 2018 BY a strange quirk of fate a piece of aircraft wreckage trawled off the bottom of the Indian Ocean at a depth of more than 450m has brought closure to the family of two pilots lost 46 years ago. Late afternoon on October 16 1969 four South African Air Force… January 25, 2016