Time is running out for entries to The Herald Bride and Groom 2017 competition, so send your favourite wedding photograph of last year to: fembride@tisoblackstar.co.za with “The Herald Bride and Groom 2017” in the subject field. The Herald will carry more information on the competition, including prize sponsors, later this month and entries will close early next month. Include the following information: bride and groom’s first and second names (including the bride’s maiden name), home address, day-time contact phone numbers, date and place of wedding, and name of photographer. Family details are optional but if you have a special memory of your engagement or wedding, please do share this also. The Herald will carry a selection of entrants’ photographs as and when space permits in My HeraldLIVE every THE Herald invites readers to send in information on upcoming community events. Wednesday, but all qualifying photographs will be posted to The Herald website, A selection are also posted to the My HeraldLIVE Facebook and Instagram profiles. Send only one photo showing the faces of the bride and groom clearly, preferably a colour photograph which may be in print or digital format. Prints are not returned. Please do not send files larger than 1MB as they will be rejected. Entrants must have been married any time between January 1 to December 31 2017, and live in The Herald circulation area. There is no age limit and it may be a second marriage. Further information from The Herald marketing coordinator Nazma Smith, (041) 504-7184 or e-mail: fembride@tisoblackstar.co.za Newlyweds have until noon February 10 to enter The Herald Bride and Groom competition, however even once entries close, you can continue to submit photographs for publication on the wedding page. The Herald invites you to send in your favourite wedding photograph from 2015 to: fembride@timesmedia.co.za with “The Herald Bride… January 13, 2016 The closing date for entry photographs for The Herald Bride and Groom 2016 weddings is Friday February 10. So, if you have not yet done so, send in your favourite wedding photograph from 2016 to: fembride@timesmedia.co.za with “The Herald Bride and Groom 2016” in the subject field. Include: bride and… January 19, 2017 Lungi Ngaphi and Tasco Festile are the first entrants for The Herald Bride and Groom 2017 competition, having celebrated their wedding last month at Ukuphupha Wedding and Conference Centre in Port Elizabeth. Ngaphi, 37, a court interpreter and Festile, 36, a radio presenter on Kingfisher FM, dated for two-and-a-half years… March 15, 2017