The rain put a dampener on the final, but the Warriors still did the Eastern Cape proud by sharing the Momentum One-Day Cup with the Dolphins. It was a magnificent effort by Jon-Jon Smuts’s team, who were not given much chance of landing silverware at the start of the season. But, showing dogged determination, the Warriors beat the odds to win a place in the final. In fact, the Warriors were in a good position to win the trophy outright when they reduced the Dolphins to 154 for six on the first of two rain-wrecked days. But with the Warriors in the pound seats, the game was abandoned and the rescheduled Saturday match also fell foul of the weather gods without a ball being bowled. While there may have been a sense of anticlimax about the way things ended, the Warriors need to be warmly applauded for a brave campaign. In the semi-final they came up against a Titans side loaded with six Proteas, but they still managed to advance to the ill-fated Durban final. They rode to trophy success on the back of a late surge in the competition. They won only one of their first four games, but managed to scrape together another three wins under pressure to book a berth in the semis. To put the Warriors’ achievement into perspective it should be remembered that the last time they got their hands on a trophy was 2010. In that season they were led by the inspirational Davy Jacobs, who took his team to a famous double of domestic white-ball titles. Now, Warriors interim coach Rivash Gobind wants to build on his side’s Momentum One-Day Cup success. The future certainly looks bright for this grounded team who showed their mettle when the chips were down. Though they are still without a headline sponsor, their recent efforts are sure to have attracted the attention of the business sector. Cobras batsman Pieter Malan helped himself to a superb 94 not out to deny the Warriors victory in their final Momentum One-Day Cup round-robin cricket match at St George’s Park last night. Any hopes the Warriors had of carrying momentum into their semifinal against defending champions Titans early next week… January 27, 2018 Warriors interim coach Rivash Gobind believes there is much more to come from his squad after they clinched the franchise’s first piece of silverware for eight years on Saturday. Through no fault of their own, the Warriors were forced to share the Momentum One-Day Cup trophy with the Dolphins when… February 5, 2018 Mega-clash on cards as top two sides slug it out for final T20 Challenge honours South Africa’s top two T20 teams go head to head in a mega-clash as the Warriors take on the Titans in the final of the CSA T20 Challenge at Centurion in Pretoria tonight. The Titans… December 16, 2016