The ANC is punishing the poor for its mistakes of the last nine years by increasing value added tax (VAT) and personal income tax for low income earners. That was DA leader Mmusi Maimane’s view after the budget speech yesterday. Gigaba announced that VAT would be increased for the first time in 25 years from April 1. Other taxes like pay-as-you-earn for low-income earners and the fuel levy would also rise in 2018-19. “What was clear is that he asked people today to pay for the errors of the last nine years,” Maimane said. “The ANC stole money, now poor people are going to have to pay. “They are going to have to pay for an increase in inflationary pressure‚ an increase in fuel costs which will mean higher transport costs for our people. “They are going to have to pay for the fact that there are significant cuts in provinces and local governments‚ which means basic services like roads‚ piping water and infrastructure will be affected‚” Maimane said. Saftu general secretary Zwelinzima Vavi said that with this year’s tax increases‚ the government was “robbing Peter to pay Paul”. “The VAT increase is a double insult to workers,” Vavi said. “This is a pro-business budget‚ it’s anti poor. “It’s been a cherry on top to punish them‚ to rob them, as the Paul, in order to pay Peter, the students‚ who have been out in the streets demanding free education. “It’s no movement forward because all it will do is increase the gap between rich and poor.” But ANC national chairman Gwede Mantashe said Gigaba had done what was right in the circumstances. “[That VAT is being increased] for the first time in many years means that the government is resilient in protecting the poor,” he said. “It has maintained a zero rating on basic foodstuffs – that’s for the poor.” Budget 2018 means South Africans must tighten their belts A big blow to the average South African. This is how Malusi Gigaba’s budget speech was perceived by some analysts as the finance minister announced a range of tax hikes yesterday. Pulling off a tough balancing act, Gigaba said that for… February 22, 2018 The possibility of hike in value added tax has been revealed as a major concern of opposition parties and civil society ahead of Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s budget speech on Wednesday. A revenue shortfall of over R50-billion‚ announced by Gigaba last year‚ has raised fears that the country’s poor may… February 21, 2018 Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has announced an increase of 1 percentage point in the value-added tax (VAT) rate in the 2018 budget, raising it to 15% in the first adjustment to taxation on goods and services under the ANC government. The first VAT increase in 25 years, which kicks in… February 21, 2018