Police minister Fikile Mbalula has said that he does not believe the ANC should pursue disciplinary charges against former president Jacob Zuma. “It would have meant the ANC would have to go for him‚” Mbalula said on Sunday in an interview with the SABC. Mbalula said the ANC NEC’s decision to recall Zuma was a “last resort”. “It (ANC) has got no vengeance or whatsoever. President Ramaphosa led from the front.” Mbalula said a cabinet reshuffle “must come” and he would not cry if he was to be removed from his current job. “If I were to [be] judged on the basis of where I stood in the (ANC elective) conference and I am removed for my views‚ then I’ll be the happiest‚ because it means I don’t have leadership. I’ve got just a group of people who think about feelings and they’ve got no interest for the movement (ANC).” Mbalula brushed off the idea that cabinet members should have resigned along with Zuma. “Why should that happen? We didn’t join Zuma‚ we joined the ANC.” Mbalula believes the ANC would have faced the same issues if Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma were elected as the ANC president in December. “We were still going to deal with the issue of the motion of no confidence. The issue of the charges against the president. The issue of the impeachment.” Mbalula said the ANC had wanted Zuma to remain until the end of his term‚ but the party faced challenges. “We’ve got a party to run. We’ve got an organisation to run. We’ve got an election to contest.” Mbalula believes the ANC should not bring disciplinary charges against Zuma. “Why do you chase somebody that has accepted to fall on his sword and departed? He is gone.” -TimesLIVE Police minister Fikile Mbalula has defended President Jacob Zuma against his detractors‚ saying those who were openly critical had sought to “demonise” the ANC. In a globally televised interview aired on Thursday‚ Mbalula took aim at deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa and former ANC treasurer general Mathews Phosa for publicly airing… May 5, 2017 President Jacob Zuma could face a motion of no confidence from within his own party – an abrupt about-turn after the staunch support he once enjoyed. Several top ANC leaders have in the past been vocal in their support for Zuma when he faced motions of no confidence or scandals… February 6, 2018 President Jacob Zuma wielded the axe with abandon last night, chopping several ministers and deputies. Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan was the first casualty in the dramatic cabinet reshuffle that unfolded. Former Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba was appointed the new finance minister, while MP Sfiso Buthelezi was made his deputy… March 31, 2017