Eastern Province Rugby chiefs have ditched the Kings name and logo for their Currie Cup and junior teams and will return to the famous elephant emblem for the new season. EP Rugby Union president Andre Rademan said teams would no longer be called EP Kings and a new elephant logo would be designed for the traditional red-and-black hooped EP jersey. “There is so much history attached to the elephant and it is part of the Eastern Cape – just look at the famous Addo Elephant Park,” Rademan said. “There is much debate on which way the trunk should point, but we will have the new logo ready soon. “It will also cut out confusion between the EP Kings and Southern Kings. “Teams will now simply be known as EP or the EP Elephants.” Many rugby supporters feel the Kings brand was tarnished after a crippling cash crisis engulfed the union. The Southern Kings will retain their title in the PRO14, but a name change could also be on the horizon for them if a new equity partner comes on board. Rademan said discussions were ongoing between EP Rugby and Hans-Peter Wild, the billionaire owner of top French team Stade Francais. Wild was Rademan’s guest in the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium presidential suite last month when the Southern Kings played a PRO14 game against the Cheetahs. “There are discussions going on which are confidential, and no decisions have been taken,” Rademan said. “Wild is back in France and business plans have been presented to him. “I do not want to create false hopes and raise expectations about this and I will make a full statement in due course. “At this stage, I am positive that this can work.” It is believed Wild wants to buy a stake in the Southern Kings and that a decision will be taken within the next 10 days. Rademan said he had called a meeting with Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids and Kings chief operating officer Charl Crous to discuss the way forward for the next two years in the PRO14. The Kings are bottom of the log after losing all their opening 13 games. “We will talk about the contracting of players and look at signing some big names to try to turn things around. “Nobody likes a losing team and we need to get sponsors on board,” Rademan said. Plans were also being made to boost the EP Currie Cup First Division and junior teams. “We are winning the financial battle and all our debt has been paid in nine months,” he said. “So now we can start with a clean slate and our next objective is to start winning on the field.” He said a board would be formed shortly with influential businessmen to help get sponsors on board. “We were not happy with the losses our juniors and Currie Cup teams suffered last season,” he said. “But we knew when we took over it would be difficult. “EPRU started from scratch building a new union and the first three months were terrible. “This executive worked until after 11 at night – and we have done it. “I knew we would lose games last season because there was nothing left and we used amateur players to play in a professional tournament. “We are also starting an academy with the [rugby] union on the campus and that will form a feeder system to the U19 and U21 structures. “We are also thinking of some PRO14 players competing in the Currie Cup.” Kings vow to dodge the axe The Southern Kings have vowed to fight any moves to oust them from Super Rugby following yesterday’s announcement that two South African teams would be axed from the tournament next year. Sanzaar, which manages the Super Rugby tournament between New Zealand, Australia, South Africa,… April 10, 2017 EPRU president wants team in Super Rugby rather than Europe Determined EP Rugby Union president Andre Rademan wants the resurgent Southern Kings to play in Super Rugby next year rather than in a European competition. Rademan was talking after a rampant Kings team demolished the Melbourne Rebels 44-3 on Saturday against… May 1, 2017 A jubilant Andre Rademan was surrounded by excited supporters after he won a hotly contested four-horse election battle to become the new president of the cashstrapped EP Rugby Union at the weekend. Rademan replaced Cheeky Watson, who resigned after eight years in the hot seat which saw the troubled union placed… April 10, 2017