Bay to benefit from injection of funds in bus system and water security project Billions of rands are headed to Nelson Mandela Bay this year, with the biggest chunk set to improve the city’s infrastructure. The lion’s share will go towards installing services, securing water resources and making changes to the city’s roads for the Integrated Public Transport System (IPTS). Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba allocated R939-million to the municipality as its equitable share. This allocation is up R95-million from last year. It excludes, however, specific allocations for capital projects. In the Treasury’s Division of Revenue Bill, it revealed that the municipality was in line to get an allocation of R2.327-billion from the national government. More than half of this money is meant for the improvement of the city’s infrastructure. Gigaba has given R304.9-million towards the stagnant bus system, which has yet to get rolling. The Bay’s political head of roads and transport, Rano Kayser, said: “It will definitely assist the municipality in realising a transport system that will benefit all residents, but equally the money will help expedite making sure we put up infrastructure towards the Njoli route.” The Njoli route is the second phase of the project and is meant to be completed this year. Over the years, billions of rands spent on the IPTS project did not go through the normal tender processes, with the municipality relying on tender deviations to get contracts. This is a thing of the past, according to Gigaba, who warned that deviations would only be allowed in rare, well-justified cases. “In recent years, a large number of deviations from normal procurement processes have reduced the credibility of the supplychain management system,” he said. “Deviations can also result in anti-competitive practices that open the door to corruption, and which limit transformation by preventing small businesses from doing business with the state.” The Bay’s political head of budget and treasury, Retief Odendaal, said they would give warnings and pursue disciplinary action against officials who did not plan properly. “Each and every deviation now has to go to the bid adjudication committee to establish if there is a need for a deviation. “It’s not just signed off by the city manager anymore,” Odendaal said. Meanwhile, money was set aside towards the completion of the Nooitgedacht water scheme, which will receive R117-million this year, R218-million next year and R151-million in 2020. The completion of the project will see the Bay’s water supply rise to 210Ml a day. The project is being managed by the Department of Water and Sanitation and implemented by the Amatola Water Board. Odendaal said they had anticipated massive drops in the allocations, as there had been warnings about cuts to municipalities and provinces to fund free higher education. “It is not as bad as I expected. Obviously, we would want to receive what was anticipated, but we expected that there was going to be a cut,” Odendaal said. “This means we have to tighten our belts and we have to look inwards to identify more operational efficiencies to be able to make the books balance as a municipality. “We know for a fact that this is going to be a difficult year for all consumers, with the percentage increase on VAT.” Other budget allocations for the Bay include: ý Urban settlements development grant – R905.6-million; In a massive boost to Nelson Mandela Bay, the city is in line to receive billions of rands from the Treasury this year to get the bus system rolling, install services and secure the metro’s water resources. Added to that, about R30-million will also be given to the municipality to… February 23, 2017 NELSON Mandela Bay’s long-awaited bus system was dealt a massive blow yesterday when Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan failed to allocate money towards the project for the next financial year. The news comes as the city is gearing up to roll out a scaled-down Integrated Public Transport System (IPTS) from July,… February 25, 2016 Capital projects, goods and services sacrificed to realise Zuma’s free education promise The government has been forced to hold back on some of its capital projects and reduce spending on goods and services to find R57-billion to fund free tertiary education. But the news of the funding was met with… February 22, 2018