A man was fatally stabbed during a brawl – allegedly over his sister – at a Linton Grange car park on Sunday night. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said Calvin Buys, 30, was stabbed at about 11.35pm in the car park at the Linton Arcade centre. “According to a preliminary report, there was a fight between the deceased, Buys, and a friend of his. They are believed to have been arguing about his [Buys] sister,” she said. “During the argument, the friend pulled out a knife and stabbed the deceased [Buys] three times in the chest. After the incident the suspect ran away.” Janse van Rensburg said Buys’s sister then put him in a shopping trolley that she had found in the centre and pushed him across the road to the Sasol garage. “She went there for help and they in turn called the police.” Janse van Rensburg  said it was not clear why the men were fighting about the woman. “The investigation is still ongoing and police are in the process of tracking down the suspect,” she said. A case of murder is being investigated.  A MAN was stabbed to death in the informal settlement of Reimvasmaak at the weekend following an argument over noise. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said Gregory Nogambula was killed shortly after an argument with a neighbour at about 6am on Saturday. “At that time the deceased came… May 30, 2016 Gareth Wilson ONE of the five suspected armed robbers involved in the coin shop heist inside the Walmer Park shopping centre last week was arrested yesterday afternoon. The 30-year-old man, from Walmer township, was apprehended after police received a tip-off and description of his car. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse… July 19, 2012 AT least three people were murdered and four house robberies reported in Nelson Mandela Bay during the Christmas period. Police also reported a number of attempted murders. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said Randall Bruintjies, 28, of Timothy Valley, was shot dead at 2pm on Christmas Eve in… December 29, 2014