India’s top court demanded a detailed plan for the future of the Taj Mahal yesterday, warning the state government’s ad hoc approach jeopardised the centuries-old monument to love. Smog has been slowly yellowing the Taj’s brilliant marble and conservationists have long fought to close polluting industries near the 17th-century icon. But years of interventions – including using mudpacks to draw the stain from the stone – have failed to arrest the slow decay of India’s biggest attraction. The Supreme Court has ordered the state government of Uttar Pradesh to produce a vision document outlining its plan for protecting the wonder of the world within a month. In particular, the court expressed concern about a sudden flurry of activities in the Taj Trapezium Zone – a buffer around the monument to protect it from pollution. “Leather industries and hotels are coming up there. Why?” the court asked, describing the government conservation plan for the Taj as ad hoc and inadequate. The state government was also directed to notify the court of how many trees had been planted in the buffer zone before any further greenery was felled for construction works. The Taj faces numerous threats, from air pollution to insects that leave green stains on the rear wall facing the heavily polluted Yamuna River. Nearly 6.5 million people marvelled at the monument in 2016 but the government announced plans to cap visitor numbers to reduce wear and tear. Anyone wanting to see the main crypt, which houses the couple’s spectacular marble graves inlaid with semi-precious stones, will also have to pay for a pricier ticket. Building restoration has dragged into a fourth year, leaving scaffolding clinging to the exterior, with work yet to even begin on its imposing dome. The Taj Mahal was built by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan as a tomb for his beloved wife Mumtaz Mahal, who died in childbirth in 1631. – AFP WHEN a 126-year-old lady took to Twitter for the first time this week, the Taj Mahal and the Statue of Liberty were so impressed that they sent her tweets to congratulate her. But this was no ordinary old lady – it was the Eiffel Tower, taking its first steps on… December 29, 2015 SA team take well-earned break before test stress YOU need to go a long way in India to find the place where football is more popular than cricket, and the Proteas squad have been there this week. That place is Goa, the beachy, peachy state on the west coast famous… October 29, 2015 18th century artefact targeted again after June theft attempt Cannon fodder is what may become of an 18th century artefact if a plan is not devised to safeguard it on its perch atop Cannon Hill in Uitenhage. Stolen on June 17 last year, the cannon, weighing more than two tons,… January 11, 2017