Babies born in the world’s poorest countries, most of them in Africa, still face “alarming” risks of death that can be 50 times as high as those in the richest countries, according to a Unicef report released yesterday. While the last quarter-century has seen broad improvements in older children’s health, “we have not made similar progress in ending deaths among children less than one month old”, Unicef executive director Henrietta Fore said. “Given that the majority of these deaths are preventable, clearly we are failing the world’s poorest babies.” The differences are stark. A baby born in Pakistan – the country with the worst newborn mortality rate – faced a one-in-22 chance of death, while a newborn in Japan had only a one in 1 111 risk of dying, the report said. Of the 10 highest-risk countries, eight are in sub-Saharan Africa, countries where pregnant women are much less likely to receive assistance, due to poverty, conflict or weak institutions, according to the report. Those eight countries are the Central African Republic (one-in-24 chance of death); Somalia, Lesotho, Guinea-Bissau and South Sudan (all one-in-26); Ivory Coast (one-in-27) and Mali and Chad (both one-in-28). Each year, about 2.6 million babies do not survive through their first month. The report was released in conjunction with the launch of a global campaign, called Every Child Alive, aimed at ensuring affordable, quality healthcare solutions for every mother and newborn. More than 80% of newborn deaths can be prevented, the report says, with welltrained midwives, along with proven solutions like clean water, disinfectants, breastfeeding within the first hour, skinto-skin contact and good nutrition. But shortages of properly trained health workers and midwives are a major problem in poorer nations. While a rich country like Norway has 18 doctors, nurses and midwives for every 10 000 people, impoverished Somalia has only one. Every year, one million babies die the day they are born. “We know we can save the vast majority of these babies with affordable, quality healthcare solutions,” Fore said. In general, babies born in richer countries fare far better, but there are differences within countries. -AFP NEARLY 20 out of 100 000 newborns are killed in South Africa, according to a new study. This, the authors say, is an underestimate of the true picture of infanticide in the country. The study, the first of its kind, found that a child was mostly likely to be murdered… April 29, 2016 HE majority of children in South Africa rely on the government's social security grant. This emerged during an African Union conference on child and social protection systems in Africa yesterday. Social Development Department deputy director-general Dr Wiseman Magasela said on the sidelines of the conference in Cape Town a significant… April 30, 2014 Britain and the UN's children's agency on Tuesday (22/07/2014) hosted the first ever "Girl Summit" to mobilise international efforts to end female genital mutilation (FGM) and child marriage, practices that affect millions of girls around the world. Prime Minister David Cameron was set to announce that parents in Britain will face… July 22, 2014