The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality will have to revert to its original budget after plans to make changes fell flat yesterday as opposition parties rejected the idea. This means the city will have to spend according to its original budget, which reflected a deficit of R125-million. The DA-led coalition needed 61 votes to make the changes and adopt the 2017-18 adjustments budget. The municipality hoped to use the money on a host of new service delivery projects, including money to add to its metro police fleet and public lighting, among other things, before the end of June. The EFF, ANC, UF, PA, AIC and UDM all voted against the proposed budget changes. The coalition only had 58 votes as there is a vacancy caused by the axing of former Ward 1 councillor Rashied Adams. The original budget has a deficit of R125million, while the adjustments budget reflected a deficit of R25-million. ANC councillor Rory Riordan said: “In the course of this adjustments budget, the criticism we had in the first budget applies here too. “The adjustments budget contains no money over three years for any new libraries, sports centres and parks, arts centres, cycle tracks, outdoor gyms and heritage sites – what are our unemployed people meant to do. “The ignoring of the poor seems to be the consistent policy of this government, we cannot support that,” Riordan said. Zilindile Vena, of the EFF, said the adjustments budget was proof that the political head of budget and treasury Retief Odendaal did not take the EFF seriously. “Odendaal has chosen to ignore our demands – and those applied throughout this financial year. “We did not agree then and thought he would incorporate our demands – but he has failed to do that.” Vena said Odendaal had an agenda. “Odendaal has put R1-million for Ward 1 for public lighting – because of the by-election to be held – and put only R1.3-million for the whole of Uitenhage,” he said. “Priority was only given to this side, even in the deadliest street of M17 [linking Motherwell to Kwazakhele], there are always fatalities – and it’s still dark – yet you claim this is pro our people.” Odendaal said not passing the adjustments budget would not halt service delivery, but it essentially meant the Treasury had been shown the middle finger. Examples of projects that will not go ahead are: ● R3-million for metro police vehicles; ● R1-million for infrastructure for informal traders; ● R500 000 for the Seyisi and Daku SPAR upgrade; ● R16.3-million for the replacement of refuse compactors; ● R2-million for the tarring of roads in Kwazakhele; ● R500 000 for the beautification of Embizweni Square in Motherwell; ● R2.5-million for promoting investment opportunities in the city; ● R3.5-million for the Apple Express; ● R39.7-million for water leaks; ● R66.8-million to fill vacancies to improve service delivery; and ● R27.6-million for motor vehicle maintenance. But opposition vows not to back budget changes The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality will be pumping millions of rands into a host of new service delivery projects before the end of June due to improvements in its finances. This depends, however, on whether or not the changes to the 2017-18… February 27, 2018 The Nelson Mandela Bay council approved its 2016-17 adjustments budget without the support of the ANC and the EFF yesterday. ANC councillor Rory Riordan said they were unhappy as the suggestions they had put forward were not considered. “We said we would support the adjustments budget if four things were… February 24, 2017 The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has been raked over the coals by the national Treasury for its indigent policy which has left the city’s finances in a shambles. Amendments to the Assistance to the Poor (ATTP) policy, approved by the previous administration in June, have resulted in the metro having… February 21, 2017