The man accused of the murder of Durban escort Siam Lee laughed in court as he heard he would be moved to the Westville Prison ahead of his application for bail next month. The 29-year-old businessman‚ who cannot be named as he faces charges of rape‚ stood before Regional Court Magistrate Mohamed Motala on Tuesday. The man had previously requested a move from the holding cells at Durban North police station‚ alleging that he was tortured. “You’ll be pleased to know you’ll be going to Westville‚” Motala said. The man grinned and chortled‚ apparently happy with his new housing arrangement. The well-known figure in the petrochemical industry was apprehended by private investigator Brad Nathanson two weeks after Lee disappeared in the first week of January. During his last appearance on Friday‚ the state added an additional batch of charges relating to the kidnapping and rape of another woman. Lee had last been seen on January 4‚ outside a Durban North house that was operating as a brothel. While the search for her spanned the province‚ the charred remains of a woman were found in a sugarcane field in New Hanover two days later. The remains were later positively identified as the 20-year-old by her relatives‚ although DNA tests to unequivocally identify her have not yet been completed by police. In the wake of Nathanson’s swoop on the suspect’s Assagay home‚ west of Durban‚ police confirmed that a gun as well as the car understood to have been used in Lee’s alleged abduction had been recovered.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Philani Gift Ntuli – accused of the murder of Siam Lee – said on Friday he was tortured while in custody. The 29-year-old businessman faces of a raft of charges‚ including murder‚ kidnapping and fraud. During his second appearance in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Friday‚ Ntuli addressed the court… February 2, 2018 There was a new twist in the case against a man accused of murdering Durban escort Siam Lee when a count of rape was added to the seven charges he was already facing. The 29-year-old businessman‚ who now cannot be named because of the rape charge‚ made his third appearance… February 9, 2018 Businessman Cebolenkosi Gift Philani Ntuli‚ the man who allegedly kidnapped and murdered Durban escort Siam Lee‚ appeared in Durban Magistrate’s Court on Monday. Magistrate Mohamed Motala barred photographers from taking footage of Ntuli as doing so could jeopardise further investigation into the case. Ntuli faces a raft of charges‚ including… January 22, 2018