Instead of tears and sadness as expected when one is booted out of a competition‚ Thembisa Mdoda gracefully bowed out of Dancing With The Stars. The actress told TshisaLIVE that it was time to go, and although she had a blast‚ she’s grateful for the time as she has other projects and her family demanding her attention. “I was really happy; there was no ounce of sadness in me. I was extremely happy‚ the only kind of sadness I felt was for my partner because he’s incredible and I would have loved SA to see more from him. “Half the time he was pushing me and encouraging me to carry on when I was like‚ ‘no guys‚ I can’t do this’. “But as for me‚ I was overjoyed‚ I regret nothing and the people who are left there are meant to be there.” Mdoda said she made a decision a while ago that she would only do things that sit well with her soul and were “spiritually in line with the journey” her career is on. She said Dancing With The Stars was one of the shows that made her have to leave her comfort zone, and the experience was well worth it. The actress also said the opportunity taught her about her body. “I learnt that I am able to push myself and particularly to push my body. “As a person in their 30s‚ it was incredibly difficult to learn the dances. “At the beginning of the week‚ I would be like‚ ‘I can’t do this’ but by the end of the week I would be dancing for an audience. I learnt so much about myself and how far I can go in how I use my body in dance.” The presenter said the Tango was her favourite dance to learn, while the Cha Cha was incredibly difficult to learn and execute. However‚ she said she would find a way to incorporate dance into her daily life as it had done “wonders” for her mind and body. Thembisa will still be on TV for her fans and said she is forever grateful for the support she’s received since her big break as a presenter on Our Perfect Wedding. “Nothing really has changed in my schedule‚ except that I may have a bit more time on my hands to attend to my children and my partner‚ who has been so supportive the whole time. I also still have all my other projects like Unmarried and local film Baby Mamas.” TV personality Thembisa Mdoda‚ who is officially a part of the Touch HD family, has poured cold water on speculation that she is leaving hit reality TV show Our Perfect Wedding. Mdoda was unveiled as one of personalities to join Tbo Touch’s revamped online radio station, Touch HD, earlier this week‚… April 3, 2017 As Our Perfect Wedding fans come to terms with Thembisa Mdoda’s departure from the hit reality show‚ she has been hard at work behind the scenes helping to find a new presenter to take over the reins. Thembisa told TshisaLIVE she joined the panel of judges at the Durban auditions of… September 19, 2017 TV presenter and actress Nomsa Buthelezi is set to bring a “new vibe” to Mzansi Magic’s hit reality show, Our Perfect Wedding, when she takes over the helm in May. Nomsa will be stepping in for Safta-winning presenter, Thembisa Mdoda, while she takes a break for the next season. Nomsa… March 23, 2017