Controversial UK commentator Katie Hopkins has asked for a meeting with EFF leader Juluis Malema to talk about the Kill the farmer song. On Tuesday Hopkins tweeted: “Dear @Julius–S–Malema @EFFSouthAfrica You are aware I am in your country. Please may I request a meeting in public to discuss the singing of ”Kill the Boer‚ Kill the Farmer”  The British TV personality – described by some media outlets as a professional troll – announced earlier this month that she would travel to South Africa to report on farm murders‚ which she claimed were the result of anti-white ethnic cleansing. Predictably‚ the tweets have stirred up a hornet’s nest – and divided opinion along racial lines. Malema does not appear to have replied and she repeated the invitation on Thursday: “Dear @Julius–S–Malema — are you afraid of a little white woman? I thought you were the big man?”  Since her arrival she has interviewed various victims of farm attacks. She tweeted on Tuesday: “Farmers and their workers live together‚ are attacked together & die together. These two beautiful men fight on & farm on — together #plaasmoorde”  UK TV personality Katie Hopkins – once known as “Britain’s most controversial columnist” – is heading to South Africa to report on farm murders‚ which she claims are a result of anti-white ethnic cleansing. https://twitter.com/KTHopkins/status/952966583433027584 In her career as a British journalist‚ Hopkins has attacked Muslims‚ called migrants “cockroaches” and… January 16, 2018 Andile Ndlovu and Refilwe Boikanyo EVERYTHING about yesterday’s meeting between the DA national spokesman, Mmusi Maimane, and Jessica Leandra dos Santos and Tshidi Thamane reeked of bureaucracy and officialdom. In vintage DA-style, Maimane issued an invitation to the media yesterday, saying the man who had unsuccessfully run for mayor of… May 11, 2012 HOT TOPIC: Hate speech and the land question EFF leader Julius Malema, in addressing supporters in Newcastle last week, urged them to continue to occupy any land available as they were the rightful owners of the land. In his inflammatory and controversial speech that was widely reported in the media,… November 16, 2016