A pair of robbers who could easily feature in a Dumbest Criminals episode, stole a television, were seen by the home owner and then returned to the scene of the crime pretending to be onlookers before being arrested. The strange incident took place in Bethelsdorp yesterday when a resident in Jenniker Street was awoken by a noise at about 3.45am. Police spokeswoman Sandra Janse van Rensburg said: “He was disturbed and awakened by noises coming from inside the room where he slept. “When the complainant woke up, he noticed two men aged 20 and 24 in his room – one had a television set in his hands.” She said a scuffle broke out and the home owner was stabbed in the hand. “The complainant managed to force the suspects out of the room and the pair retreated to the backyard where they eventually dropped the television set,” Janse van Rensburg said. The two suspects then fled while the home owner called the police. “While the police were busy attending to the crime scene, the two suspects returned and pretended to be onlookers. “It was at this stage that the complainant identified the pair. “They were arrested immediately and charged with house robbery.” The two men will appear in court today. A policewoman was shot dead and another officer is in a critical condition in hospital after they were fired at in their police van at the scene of an attempted robbery at a Sydenham, Port Elizabeth, factory. Constable Caroline Mjandana, 38, was killed while her partner, Sergeant Anele France, 43,… December 23, 2017 Three people were robbed in their homes in Port Elizabeth during the early hours of yesterday morning. This brings the total number of house robberies in the area between Thursday and yesterday morning to five. In one incident, an elderly Port Elizabeth couple were held hostage and tied up inside… September 16, 2017 AT least three people were murdered and four house robberies reported in Nelson Mandela Bay during the Christmas period. Police also reported a number of attempted murders. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said Randall Bruintjies, 28, of Timothy Valley, was shot dead at 2pm on Christmas Eve in… December 29, 2014