Veteran bubblegum musician Vusi Shange’s daughter has opened up about how her father was planning a mega musical comeback before his death last week. Speaking to Sowetan‚ Sibongile Shange confirmed that her father‚ who battled diabetes for more than 25 years‚ died at his Vosloorus home on Friday night. “I arrived home from work and called out his name to greet him when I entered the house. “When he didn’t respond‚ I investigated and found him slumped against the bath tub in his bathroom. I tried to wake him up but he was gone already‚” she told the paper. Sibongile said the veteran’s death was unexpected and that they were struggling to come to terms with the loss. She also revealed that Bra Vusi was working on a new album that he planned to release soon, and that it was his way of making a comeback. “He was working on a new album which was due to be released soon. “Music was his passion‚ that is why he has been fighting to return to the music industry at [the age of] 64.” Ever since news of Bra Vusi’s death emerged, fans and industry colleagues have paid tribute to him on social media. The disco musician rose to stardom with tracks such as Step Mother and was fondly referred to as “Big Daddy”. Music Association of South Africa spokesman Tebogo Sethathu told SABC News that Shange was Mzansi’s “James Bond”. “I personally remember him as an electric man‚ our own James Brown. He started way back with the likes of Blondie Makhene. He will be missed.” Details of Vusi’s memorial and funeral services are expected to be released later in the week.  Valentine’s Day is around the corner and Vusi Nova is still looking for love. The R&B crooner often serenades his fans with his love songs but he revealed to Times Media that he is still single. “I broke up with someone around September last year when my last album came… February 3, 2017 I STARTED my weekend on a high note by attending the Corporate Sundowners event at the Boardwalk Hotel's plush Tshawe Bar on Friday. Being the diva-licious gossip girl that I am, I decided to wear a little black number. Yes, it is the middle of winter and so my secret… August 1, 2014 AWARD-WINNING singer Vusi Nova has a surprise up his sleeve for fans who attend the iRock Music Festival at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday. Nova, who has been nominated for best R&B soul album at this year’s SA Music Awards (Sama), said he could not wait to perform… April 1, 2015