 EFF leader Julius Malema‚ commenting on the official confirmation that the State of the Nation address by President Jacob Zuma will not take place on Thursday‚ says a resignation is imminent.  Malema said a majority of the ANC national working committee members who met on Monday “spoke in favor of his removal”. A meeting of the broader national executive committee is scheduled for tomorrow‚ Wednesday. Parliamentary presiding officers Baleka Mbete and Thandi Modise on Tuesday afternoon announced the postponement of the State of the Nation address. The State of the Nation address – which is also the official opening of Parliament – was originally scheduled to take place on Thursday‚ February 8. The annual budget speech‚ delivered by the finance minister‚ was scheduled for just two weeks later‚ on February 21. Mbete said every effort was being made to ensure the Sona postponement did not affect the budget speech. Here is Mbete’s statement‚ in full: The State of the Nation Address (SONA) is an important occasion in the national political programme of Parliament. We have been dismayed in the past four years at the disruption‚ anarchy and chaos that have been characteristic of this annual Joint Sitting which‚ in some way‚ marks the opening of Parliament. Reporting through Parliament on the State of the Nation is a critical accountability action by the Executive and it must happen. Developments this year‚ particularly the calls for disruption and/or postponement of the Joint Sitting‚ have‚ therefore‚ caused us great concern. We have‚ regrettably‚ come to the conclusion that there is little likelihood of an uneventful Joint Sitting of Parliament this coming Thursday. With this in mind‚ we decided to approach the President of the Republic to propose that we postpone the Joint Sitting in order to create room for establishing a much more conducive political atmosphere in Parliament. When we met the President‚ we then learnt that he was already writing to Parliament to ask for the postponement of SONA. This postponement has taken into account the scheduled tabling of the national budget in the next two weeks. We wish to assure fellow South Africans and everyone affected by this decision that these actions are being taken in the best interests of Parliament and the country. A new date for the State of the Nation Address will be announced soon. Thank you President Jacob Zuma lacked courage and sold out the revolution, Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema said on Wednesday (18/06/2014). "You are extremely scared of white people, especially white monopoly capital," Malema said while delivering his maiden speech in Parliament during the debate on Zuma's state-of-the-nation address. Malema landed in… June 18, 2014 EFF leader Julius Malema says he does not hate white people, and there will not be a white genocide under his rule. "I do not hate white people. I want us to share in the countries (sic) wealth which is in the hands of the minority," he said in an… April 15, 2014 EFF leader Julius Malema has given a press conference following the party's ejection from Parliament. Malema criticised Zuma for failing to uphold the constitution, saying that this meant that Zuma was occupying the presidency illegally. "South Africans who're not happy with us will thank us later. You will thank us… February 14, 2017