Catch Cool – A Dance Spectacular at the Savoy Theatre in Perridgevale on Friday at 7.30pm and Saturday at 6pm. Audiences can expect to be dazzled by Flamenco De Algoa’s Tablao Flamenco – a fiery performance to live music by flamenco teacher Carlos’s dancers and featuring Spanish guest guitarist Demi Fernandez. The McWilliams Academy of Irish Dance will deliver three energetic toe-tapping routines, while Ellen Bunting’s Dance Academy will thrill with a Broadway jazz group, as well as a sparkling tap dance and lyrical contemporary dance item. Classical ballet will be represented by both the Susan Zerbst School of Ballet and the Walmer School of Dance. Zerbst will bring Beethoven’s struggle with hearing loss to life and there will be a duet by two accomplished dancers, titled Dance of the Fireflies. For those who did not see Troy Coffey of Walmer School of Dance’s 2017 showcase, The Art of Movement, three items from that show will also be featured. Another highlight will be the Debbie Ralph Ballet School’s version of Cabaret .Gilbert & Sullivan artists will perform several vocal items. The production is a fundraiser to purchase a desperately needed air-conditioning unit for the theatre. Tickets at R100 each are at Computicket, or contact Monica on 083-471-8893 or Rose on 072-906-1977. Flamenco de Algoa presents Celebracion Flamenca tomorrow and on Sunday at the Savoy Theatre in Perridgevale. The Spanish-themed performance will feature flamenco dancers and international flamenco guitarist Demitrio Fernandez. Fernandez, who is originally from Galicia in Spain, lives in Durban where he is a senior lecturer and head of the… December 1, 2017 Flamenco de Algoa will bring to life the passion and fire of this Spanish dance art with a production called Celebracion Flamenca this Sunday at the Savoy Theatre in Perridgevale. Directed by Flamenco de Algoa dance school founder Clive Bain, who goes by the professional name Carlos, the production will feature… November 24, 2016 Local Irish dance studio McWilliams Academy of Dance is adding an international flavour to its upcoming show, Planet Ireland, scheduled for early next month. The annual concert is now in its fourth year and will see members of the academy present a mixture of various Irish dance pieces, both well-known… November 11, 2016