 The highest-ranking official at the University of Zimbabwe‚ vice-chancellor Prof Levi Nyagura‚ was on Friday night picked up by the Zimbabwe Anti-Corruption Commission (ZACC) over the awarding of a PhD to former first lady Grace Mugabe. According to the charge sheet‚ Nyagura “recommended without the approval of the university council” that the wife of ousted Zimbabwe president Robert Mugabe be awarded the degree. ZACC spokeswoman Phyllis Chikundura said the academic would appear in court on Saturday morning at about 10am. “He’s in custody. He will have his day in court tomorrow facing abuse-of-office charges‚” she said. The university’s sociology department had in January petitioned the ZACC to look into the matter‚ which it described as suspicious. At the time‚ the ZACC issued a statement saying it had received a complaint but was not pursuing the matter. Four years after the degree was awarded in 2014‚ it was not readily available on the university’s website. It was uploaded only at the end of January this year. Nyagura claimed it had been available at the university’s library all along, and warned lecturers who were “ignorant of the university’s ordinances”. When the document titled “The Changing Social Structures and Functions of the Family: The Case of Children’s Homes in Zimbabwe” was uploaded‚ some academics said it was akin to academic fraud and was not fit to stand even as an undergraduate study. This week, the government reduced the number of security staff assigned to Mugabe and his wife, and withdrew security officers from their daughter Bona’s Harare home. Insiders said the drastic measure was taken to punish Robert Mugabe for meeting opposition leader Joice Mujuru amid suspicion that he hoped to pair his wife with Mujuru to lead an opposition movement. Advocate opposes application to have diplomatic immunity decision on Mugabe’s wife reviewed The Zimbabwean embassy in Pretoria entered the fray yesterday in the case between Zimbabwe’s first lady‚ Grace Mugabe, and the model she allegedly assaulted. Civil rights group AfriForum‚ acting on behalf of Gabriella Engels‚ brought an application at… September 20, 2017 If Robert Mugabe and his family chose to move to South Africa‚ the government would have to provide them with a house and state security. “We have done this before‚ when we took in a former head of state‚ and he lived in Pretoria for several years‚” said Professor Anthoni… November 20, 2017 Couple claim R74m Hong Kong home THE cash-strapped Zimbabwean government is to fight a potentially embarrassing legal case in Hong Kong over a HK$48-million (R74-million) luxury villa said to be one of the favourite properties of first lady Grace Mugabe. The house has already proved controversial after Bona Mugabe, daughter… May 26, 2015