Would we be correct in saying South Africa’s new president could be a fitness freak? He may be dealing with serious matters‚ like the state of the nation address or the looming budget speech but Cyril Ramaphosa is consistent in his morning walks. Those who jog or walk along Cape Town’s Sea Point Promenade have in the last few days been lucky enough to be joined on their trail by Ramaphosa.  The trail has in the last few days attracted more joggers hoping to bump into the president and his entourage.      Several have been brave enough to interrupt the president’s workout for a selfie or two. Now‚ Ramaphosa is inviting even more people to join him on his morning walks. A poster issued by the ANC in the Western Cape titled the “President promotes a healthy lifestyle” calls on locals to strap on their sneakers and join Ramaphosa at 5.30am on Tuesday morning. This time‚ he is hitting the trail from the Gugulethu Sports Complex to the Athlone Stadium – a 5.5km trail. Ramaphosa is seemingly fond of his early morning beach walks. Last month‚ he was spotted walking along a beach in East London. Back then‚ it was not Ramaphosa’s quest to stay in shape that caught the spotlight but it was his red and white Ronald McDonald socks.  Developmental economist and South Africa's first black governor of the SA Reserve Bank‚ Tito Mboweni‚ says he will not be a contender for a cabinet minister position under new president Cyril Ramaphosa. In the early hours of the morning‚ Mboweni took to Twitter to share: "Against the wisdom of my… February 19, 2018 While Kenny Kunene is lucky to have escaped unharmed after the BMW 125i he was driving was riddled with bullets on Tuesday night‚ he couldn't escape the fierce reaction from social media users‚ who expressed suspicion over the incident. Kunene said that at least "five rows of bullets" had been… September 6, 2017 South Africa's next president could be elected this week at the ANC's leadership conference in Soweto. Here is how the candidates have shaped up on social media. Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma‚ who is one of the top contenders to succeed President Jacob Zuma for the lead role on Sunday‚ took to Twitter… December 11, 2017