The death count in South Africa’s listeriosis outbreak – the worst documented listeriosis outbreak in global history – has topped 100. The National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) announced on Tusesday that the number of confirmed listeriosis cases is now 852‚ and 107 people have died‚ the death rate – based on the outcome data for 355 cases – now sitting at 30%. Of those confirmed cases‚ 42% were babies of less than a month old‚ pregnant women being 20 times more likely to get listeriosis than other healthy adults. Contracted from eating food containing the pathogen listeria‚ listeriosis is the most deadly of food-borne diseases‚ the death rate in other documented outbreaks being up to one in four. And still the source of the outbreak – thought to be a food product or range of products from one company – remains unknown. Most cases – 59% – have been reported in Gauteng‚ with 13% of cases in the Western Cape and 7% in KZN; roughly two thirds of cases being confirmed in state hospitals and a third in private hospitals. Pretoria-based food safety expert Dr Lucia Anelich says the “culprit” is most likely a product consumed by consumers across the country and “extremely often”. Listeriosis symptoms – typically flu-like – develop any time between two and 30 days after eating food contaminated with the listeria pathogen. High on the list of foods known to have caused other listeriosis outbreaks are ready-to-eat foods which consumers don’t cook or heat before eating‚ primarily deli meats – slices of ham‚ polony‚ cooked chicken and the like. “Deli meats are obviously consumed by a wide variety of people in the population‚ whether it’s a cheaper cut or a more expensive one‚” Anelich says. Municipal environmental health practitioners in all provinces are systematically inspecting and taking samples at food production‚ processing and packaging facilities. – TimesLIVE New infections bring number of confirmed cases in SA to 717 A further 167 people have contracted deadly listeriosis in the past month‚ bringing the total number of confirmed cases in South Africa to 717. It is the worst documented listeriosis outbreak in global history, according to food scientists. In… January 8, 2018 In response to reports of listeriosis outbreaks in the country as well as in the NMBM (“Cases of listeriosis infection in Bay increase to nine”, January 18), according to statistics from January 10, three cases have been identified in the NMBM to date. Two weeks ago, Health Minister Dr Aaron… January 22, 2018 The number of people who contracted potentially fatal listeriosis infections in Nelson Mandela Bay has risen sharply from two to nine, the Eastern Cape Department of Health said today (17/01/18). However, residents have been assured that the city’s tap water is safe to drink. Health superintendent-general Dr Thobile Mbengashe said… January 17, 2018