Buying a home is not child’s play and anyone considering making such a large investment must know the basics before signing on the dotted line. Here are 12 tips from Private Property to help you make the right decision: Figure out where you want to live before you start looking for a home. Factor in things like schools you’d like your children to attend, as well as the commute to and from work, before deciding. Property is generally not a good investment in the short-term, so be cautious of buying unless you are looking at staying in the home for at least five years. Your home is your castle. It’s where you will entertain your friends, sleep and raise a family. Don’t buy something that’s too small with the idea that you can ‘make do’. Determine your needs before you start house-hunting and stick to the plan. Don’t look at property that’s more expensive than you can afford. Have a budget and work within it. Don’t allow impressive features to cloud your judgment. Gold-plated taps or a spa bath is going to make your life better if the rest of the property isn’t up to scratch. Have some idea of the average price of property in the area in which you want to live. If it seems a little pricey, ask the agent why the price is so high and move on if you are not satisfied with the reasons given. Ask how long a particular property has been on the market. Someone struggling to sell and whose property has been on the market for some time is far more likely to negotiate the selling price Try to save up for a deposit even if you think there’s a chance you will be eligible for a 100% loan. The more you put down, the less you will pay in monthly instalments. Mortgage originators are one of the best things to happen to the South African property sector. Fill in the paperwork, sit back and let the experts find you the best deal. Transfer fees, conveyancing fees, deposits for lights and water all need to be paid. Get some idea of what you’re in for before buying and make sure you have enough cash to take care of the additional costs. Don’t assume you’ve failed because a seller has rejected an offer. Either up your offer if you can afford to, or walk away and find something else. Take your time and don’t allow anyone, including the seller or agent, to talk you into buying something if you are unsure of any aspect of the home. Weigh up everything before making a decision and submitting an offer. GIVEN that property should be viewed as a long-term investment, it is essential for potential buyers to choose the right home that works for them and their lifestyle, as they may be there for some time, says property expert Adrian Goslett. "While it is important for buyers to look at… October 6, 2013 MANY people have a dream to buy property in an idyllic small town. Perhaps to use as a holiday breakaway, for retirement, or as a means to move away from city life. If this is you, proceed with caution. Don't make a big move to a small town simply because… August 31, 2014 VANESSA Kasperski is resident agent at Gamtoos Mouth Resort for Linmere Real Estate. She has seen increased property sales in recent months and more interest from buyers. Gamtoos Mouth Resort overlooks the river and the sea towards Jeffreys Bay and is 60km from Port Elizabeth with excellent access from the… January 19, 2014