Minnie Dlamini has spent the last few months shooting down rumours she is expecting‚ and has now revealed that she has even been offered the chance to host a reality show based on her pregnancy . . . when it happens. The star had fans guessing she was pregnant late last year when she posted a cryptic message about an upcoming announcement‚ only to tell TshisaLIVE that nothing could be further from the truth. Speaking to Gareth Cliff on CliffCentral recently‚ Dlamini admitted that the questions about her “expecting” started the moment the dust had settled on her marriage. “I got that the day after my wedding. “My mother was in tears the other day saying she’s not going to be alive to see her grandchildren. “I was like: ‘excuse me‚ give me a second to breathe’. “That’s not even the best part‚ I’m being offered baby shows‚ like a baby reality show‚ to document my pregnancy and being a mom.” She later joked that she may consider it if she was offered R6-million. She admitted that she got “broody sometimes” but knows how much it would change her life. “Now I’m at a point in my life where it can happen. I have a nephew and he is amazing. I hope they turn out like him. “But I’m very aware of how difficult it is to raise a kid‚ and I know how hectic my life and lifestyle can get. Right now I’m not sure if it’s on the cards.” She told TshisaLIVE in an interview shortly after her wedding that she didn’t feel pressurised to fall pregnant and was planning to keep everyone guessing over whether she was expecting. “You know how it goes: first comes love‚ then comes marriage, then comes a baby in a golden carriage,” she said. In true Minnie Dlamini style‚ she jetted off to Paris for a week of fun with her bridesmaids ahead of her white wedding expected to take place later this month. The past week for Minnie and her besties has been all about sipping champers and unwinding before she steps into… September 7, 2017 Minnie Dlamini and Bonang Matheba have often competed for the title of Mzansi’s biggest star‚ but despite the temptation Minnie says she has never stalked Bonang on social media and doesn’t even follow her rival. In an interview on Jacaranda on Tuesday‚ Minnie was asked if she had ever stalked… October 4, 2017 Even though Minnie Dlamini looks all sorts of gorgeous‚ she thinks she looks chubby — and is okay with that. Instead of shying away from her imperfections‚ Minnie has chosen to embrace her bootylicious curves. Sharing a picture of herself from a Tropika Island of Treasure photoshoot‚ Minnie commented on… July 6, 2016