The Chamber of Mines has agreed jointly with the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) to postpone its court application over the Reviewed Mining Charter‚ which was due to be heard in the High Court from today February 19 until February 21. This comes after the State of the Nation Address on Friday‚ and subsequent engagement with the Presidency. “The Presidency has indicated that the President (Cyril Ramaphosa) is committed to resolving the impasse over the Mining Charter and to facilitate a process of developing a New Mining Charter‚ inclusive of all stakeholders and in the interests of the industry and the country as a whole‚” the chamber said in a statement. “In line with the spirit and the tone of the message as stated by the President during SONA on 16 February‚ the Chamber of Mines is agreeable to the request by the Presidency to give negotiations a chance.” Chamber of Mines President‚ Mxolisi Mgojo‚ said: “We welcome the President’s intervention‚ and his commitment to engaging meaningfully with stakeholders in the industry – and others – on a New Mining Charter. Ultimately‚ a New Mining Charter must be developed and resolved through negotiation‚ with representation by a broad range of stakeholders – government‚ business‚ labour and communities. For the Chamber of Mines‚ and the industry‚ legal recourse was always a last resort‚ intended to get the parties to the table‚ and the sooner we do that the better for the industry and our country.” The chamber added that the amici curiae (friends of the court)‚ namely the National Union of Mineworkers and Solidarity‚ and the other applicants‚ represented by the Centre for Applied Legal Studies and the Lawyers for Human Rights‚ have been advised of this development.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane says it’s a foregone conclusion who the next president of the ANC will be. “We already know who will be president … It’s a done deal. We are not stressing. The policies won’t change. In January there will new leadership and policies will remain the… October 4, 2017 For the mining sector to progress‚ it has to go back and redo things that were done incorrectly before, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said. “The reason South Africa is not the world’s mining capital is entirely our own doing,” he said. “We chose to shut the door on new mining… October 5, 2017 Mining magnate Bridgette Radebe has asked President Jacob Zuma not to sign the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act Amendment Bill into law, she said on Thursday (16/10/2014). Radebe told the Cape Town Press Club the SA Mining Development Association (Samda), of which she is president, made the submission last… October 16, 2014