  My son’s all time favourite food is the humble pancake … I can’t tell you how it started or why the best pancake topping is apparently cream cheese, but he loves it and it is a way for me to get some protein in to him. I always thought of pancake-making as a whole long drawn out production but my mom’s three-ingredients-in-a-jar recipe has made this “Sunday morning treat” a wherever – and whenever – occurrence. This recipe makes three big pancakes or six little ones Mason jar
one egg
two spoons of self-raising flour
1/3 cup milk (80ml)
oil for frying
cream cheese, cheese spread blocks or other topping of your choice I know you are probably thinking I have the numbers wrong but, really, I don’t!
I’m both lazy and cheap so this is how I roll: Throw the milk into the jar Add the flour to the jar Add the egg I use a metal ball from my protein shake mixer (you know, the one you use for the supplements, from a store like Clicks or Dischem) in my jar to help with mixing, but it is really not a must.
It does help with the lumps though; it makes the whole mixing thing sooo much easier. Shake shake shake … heat oil in a pan and fry up. I really don’t know how to explain this next part as I am still to figure out how to do that toss-in-the-air pancake-flip thing.
I just put some mix in a pan and fry it up! Their favourite way of eating pancakes is by spreading the pancake with cream cheese or cheese spread blocks, rolling it up and putting it on a stick.
I don’t know why.
But my picky eater loves, it so I am not asking questions. This is also great if you just need a sweet treat yourself, some cinnamon sugar and you are sorted! Eleanor Douglas-Meyers is a crafty mom from Uitenhage who writes about DIY, parenting, natural hair care, fashion, food and fun on her blog JustEllaBella   It seems to be baby season in our neck of the woods (My favourite kind of baby, the ones you can give back after… February 1, 2017 French toast waffles might be a life-saver if your children are picky eaters, says Just Ella Bella blogger Eleanor Douglas-Meyers in her column today.       French toast waffles are saving my life because my son is not the best eater, not by a long shot. He is also… October 18, 2017 Buttermilk pancakes Buttermilk's sour tinge balances so beautifully with spice and adds volume and depth to baked goods. This recipe makes 20 pancakes. 2 cups cake flour ½ tsp baking powder pinch of salt 1 cup full-cream milk 1 cup buttermilk 2 large eggs 4 Tbsp butter melted vegetable oil for… March 4, 2014