A sharp drop in South Africa’s maize crop is expected‚ due to poor rainfall and a greedy pest. The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) said yesterday that Southern Africa as a region was being affected by prolonged dry spells‚ erratic rainfall‚ high temperatures and the presence of the fall armyworm‚ which have significantly dampened the current agricultural season’s cereal production prospects. “Early action in the form of consolidating information through assessments and anticipatory measures that reduce the impact of threats are crucial for an effective response‚” the UN agency said. Fall armyworm‚ which first emerged last season‚ is spreading‚ it said. The pest is now present across the Southern African Development Community (SADC) except Mauritius and Lesotho. Partial fall armyworm monitoring has pointed to Malawi as the hotspot in the 2017-18 season‚ and the country has since declared a national disaster. “FAO concludes that the damage may already have been done. Whether the dry spells continue‚ or a lot of rainfall is received within a short period‚ crop production is likely to be negatively affected‚” FAO sub-regional coordinator for Southern Africa David Phiri said. According to a Special Alert issued by the Food Nutrition and Security Working Group this week‚ South Africa – the largest producer of white maize in the region – has reported a 22% decline in area planted this season. Department pins hopes on two pesticides in fight to save SA’s maize crops The Department of Agriculture‚ Forestry and Fisheries has identified two pesticides it believes will be effective in delivering the country’s maize fields from a fall armyworm plague. The voracious larval pest has been identified throughout Limpopo and… February 7, 2017 Farmers have planted a third more hectares of maize this season following increased rainfall and favourable climate conditions, a Reuters poll showed yesterday. The Crop Estimates Committee (CEC) is expected to forecast the planted area at 2.6 million hectares, up 33.5% from the 1.947 million ha planted in 2015, according… January 19, 2017 ELLIOT Nzarayebani, a farmer in Zimunya, near Mutare, expects to have to rely on food handouts due to the drought ravaging his maize. “Crops are wilting right in front of our eyes. The situation is desperate,” the father of four, 45, said. The maize planted in November in this part… January 19, 2016