A bloody exchange of gunfire in a churchyard on Friday evening left seven suspected Engcobo cop-killers dead. The Hawks cornered the gang at their hideout in a church in Nyanga village near Engcobo on Friday night. Seven suspected gang members were killed during the shootout‚ 10 were arrested and others escaped. One police officer was wounded and rushed to a hospital. “The group‚ which uses a church as a hiding place‚ was cornered inside the church premises. A gun battle between suspects and police ensued which left seven suspects dead and a task force team member injured in the leg‚” the Hawks said in a statement. “An unknown number of suspects managed to escape and are currently being sought by the police. A number of firearms have been confiscated‚” the statement continued. This comes after a gang raided a police station in Engcobo on Wednesday. Three officers and an off-duty soldier died in the execution-style attack on the police station‚ which is between Mthatha and Queenstown. The bodies of two more officers were found about 6km away. Another police officer died later in hospital. Ten police firearms and a police van were stolen in the attack. Police Minister Fikile Mbalula said that they believe that former policemen and soldiers were behind the attack. “Some of the criminals are retired police members and military people. You see how they shot here at Engcobo police station they are well trained‚” Mbalula was quoted in the Sowetan. Eastern Cape health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo on Friday evening confirmed that the person was injured during the shootout was being treated at All Saints Hospital in Engcobo. Kupelo said: “Forensic pathology have also been dispatched to the scene of the shooting for collection of the bodies.” The wounded person would be referred to Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital‚ said Kupelo. This comes as Mbalula was set to jet into Engcobo on Saturday morning to hold a press briefing‚ where he is expected to make an announcement about the latest developments in Wednesday’s shootout.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  National police commissioner General Khehla Sitole has appointed a task team to investigate an attack on a police station in the Eastern Cape. At least six people‚ including police officers‚ were killed after a shooting at the police station in Ngcobo between Mthatha and Queenstown on Wednesday morning. “I am… February 21, 2018 The Hawks on Tuesday said they had arrested three men suspected to be behind the killing of Cape Town police Constable Lindekile Sikade, 39, in April this year. “The Hawks and Tactical Response Team members followed information which led them to different addresses in Lower Crossroad‚ Phillip-East were three suspects‚… June 7, 2016 MORE Hawks members have been deployed in Port Elizabeth’s northern areas following three gang-related shootings at the weekend that left six people dead and two seriously wounded. In the worst incident on Saturday night, four people were shot dead and a teenager was wounded in Arcadia. The shootings came just… February 1, 2016