The South African Human Rights Commission has subpoenaed the Minister of Social Development‚ Bathabile Dlamini. The subpoena is in relation to the Commission’s National Investigative Hearing on the Status of Mental Health Care in South Africa‚ which was held on November 14-15 last year‚ 2017. “Despite numerous attempts to secure submissions from the Department of Social Development (DSD) at the hearing‚ neither the Minister nor officials of the DSD have responded‚” the commission said on Monday. The SAHRC said the department plays a critical role in respect of mental health care users‚ including children. “The Commission is of the view that information from the Department was necessary for its probe into the status of mental health care in the country.” Despite being contacted telephonically and in writing for information‚ the commission said “the Department has failed to cooperate or respond”. A delegation from the commission even visited the Minister’s office in Cape Town on February 7 this year‚ 2018‚ and later forwarded correspondence relating to the matter to the department. Although the department acknowledged receipt of the correspondence‚ it has to date not provided the SAHRC with the information requested‚ the commission said. Organs of state‚ including National Departments‚ have a constitutional and statutory obligation to co-operate with the Commission‚ in terms of the South African Human Rights Commission Act. The subpoena was served on Dlamini on Friday‚ February 23‚ 2018‚ the commission said. As calls for the head of Minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini grow louder‚ the South African Human Rights Commission called on Friday for an urgent top-level meeting over the lack of clarity on the payment of social grants after March 31. Archbishop Emeritus Njongonkulu Ndungane has called for Social… March 3, 2017 Former director-general in the Department of Social Development Zane Dangor has revealed the hurtful allegations of racism and sexism that led to his resignation. Dangor quit last month amid the social grants crisis‚ citing a breakdown in the relationship between himself and Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini. In an affidavit… April 11, 2017 Social development minister Bathabile Dlamini made a long-awaited appearance before parliament’s Standing Committee on Public Accounts (Scopa) on Tuesday. Dlamini was due to appear before the committee last week‚ but did not show up‚ angering members of the committee‚ who had wanted to grill her on the status of the… March 7, 2017