Chippa United will not be taking a backward step when they face Orlando Pirates in their much-anticipated Absa Premiership clash at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Sunday. Chilli Boys coach Teboho Moloi will be up against the Soweto giants, a team he has played and coached in the past. He is looking to grab a muchneeded home victory and help his side avenge their 1-0 loss to the Buccaneers in the first round. Pirates have been a force to be reckoned with this season. Speaking at a media briefing yesterday, Moloi said he was not fazed by the hype surrounding the Soweto team. He is adamant that his players will be able to hold their own against them. “It will be 11 players against my 11 players and no special treatment will be given to Pirates when they come here,” Moloi said. “Sundowns came here in the first round and did not find it easy. “We will not be treating them as if they have won something special – they are a mere PSL team just like us. “Everyone who enters the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium must know that they will be given 100% effort by my players. “We respect them, but we will not be scared of them and we will show them that we can also play enterprising football. “We will have the same approach with them: we are going to walk tall and hold our own against them. “The players just need to be fully prepared, but most importantly they must be mentally prepared. “It is a crucial game for us as a team, but I do not want to make this a personal game. “[It] will not just be about us and our opponents. “There is something bigger we need to focus on beyond the game. “I realise that I will be giving out the instructions and it will be up to my players to execute our plans effectively.” The Port Elizabeth team will be hoping to use home turf advantage, but Moloi says Pirates have a massive following wherever they play. Mental strength from his players will be key in trying to keeping the Buccaneers at arms’ length. “We all know it’s a home game for Pirates everywhere they play. “[Many] hearts will be split in two. “Pirates will see we can play the brand of football we have been preaching all season. “This game is important because all the teams are conscious of where they are on the log. “We need to stay in contact and keep in touch with those above us and keep away from those below us.” Chippa United coach Teboho Moloi has asked his players to put their hearts on the line when they face Kaizer Chiefs in the Telkom Knockout last eight at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Sunday. After seeing off Mamelodi Sundowns 1-0 in the last 16 of the… October 31, 2017 Creating goal-scoring opportunities at speed is what Chippa United caretaker coach Teboho Moloi believes his team needs to fire them back to their winning ways. Chippa host Bloemfontein Celtic at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Sunday from 3pm and Moloi is banking on his team collecting… September 22, 2017 Chippa United will be looking to redeem themselves when they take on Baroka FC in what should be a thrilling Absa Premiership soccer encounter at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane at 3.30pm today. The Chilli Boys suffered a horrific 3-1 loss to Bakgaga at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium… February 17, 2018