This summer salad of tomato, melon and burrata salad with basil dressing couldn’t be easier, writes Diana Henry for The Telegraph. Simply slice, assemble, then whizz up a punchy herb dressing to finish. Good ripe melons and well-flavoured tomatoes are essential for this salad. Make the dressing immediately before serving to prevent it from discolouring – and don’t be tempted to use too much garlic, you want only the barest hint. Here in South Africa, look for spanspek and honeydew melon to replace ogen and galia. Similarly, if you cannot find burrata cheese, substitute with a fairly soft mozarella cheese. Burrata is a fresh Italian buffalo milk cheese made from mozzarella and cream, with a firmer outer layer and softer texture inside.  300g tomatoes (a mix of sizes, shapes and colours) ½ ogen melon ½ galia melon 1½ tbsp lemon juice 3 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil 300g burrata, drained For the dressing: 60g fresh basil 2 tbsp lemon juice 2 tsp runny honey ½ small clove garlic, crushed 8 tbsp extra-virgin olive oil Halve some of the tomatoes and cut others into wedges or slice them, depending on their size. Transfer to a serving bowl or platter. Slice each melon half into wedges and remove the seeds and skin. Slice each wedge into thinner pieces about 1cm thick and arrange them with the tomatoes. Mix together the lemon juice and olive oil and pour this over. For the dressing, remove and discard the stalks from the basil, then put the leaves into a food processor with all the other ingredients and some seasoning. Whiz to a purée, adjust the seasoning to your taste, and scrape out into a bowl. Add the cheese to the melon and tomatoes (you can tear it into pieces if you prefer). Season everything with salt and pepper (it’s important to do this, or the dish will taste too sweet). Spoon the basil dressing over the top and serve immediately. It will serve six as a starter or four as a light summer lunch. – The Telegraph IN NEED of inspiration to make that party sizzle? Diana Henry shares her recipe for a sensational stress-free supper. Serves 6 to 8 as a side dish or part of a spread. INGREDIENTS: 200g couscous 300ml hot chicken or vegetable stock, or boiling water 4 tbsp olive oil 1 large… August 20, 2015 Beat the summer heat with this light and tasty recipe for snoek with fresh tomato salad and watercress pesto, from the Lose It! Magazine Cookbook. Lose It! is a low-carb South African magazine, aimed at helping its readers to understand, prepare and eat simple yet satisfying meals. Its new cookery book… March 1, 2017 SERVES FOUR INGREDIENTS: 500g fresh tomatoes peeled, deseeded and chopped 50g extra-virgin olive oil 2 bay leaves A small handful fresh basil leaves A small strip of red chilli, deseeded 280g dry Arborio rice A knob of butter 1 glass dry white wine 1.5l broth (chicken or vegetable) 2 tbsp… March 10, 2014