ANC Deputy President David “DD” Mabuza is due to be sworn-in as one of the party’s new MPs on Tuesday. This is according to well-placed officials in Parliament who have told TimesLIVE about the matter on condition of anonymity because they are not authorised to speak publicly on the issue. Officials also said former ANC treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize is also among new MPs who will take oath of office on Tuesday. This is the clearest indication yet that Mabuza is likely to be appointed by President Cyril Ramaphosa as the deputy president of the country. Shortly after his election as ANC deputy president at the party’s national congress in December last year‚ there were indications that Mabuza did not expect to be appointed as the deputy president of the country immediately‚ with some saying he had preferred to complete his term as Mpumalanga premier in 2019. Up until now there’s been speculation that Ramaphosa was planning to have as his deputy a female candidate‚ with the names of top ANC leaders such as human settlements minister Lindiwe Sisulu and science and technology minister Naledi Pandor bandied about. Ramaphosa’s office on Monday night said he would be announcing changes to the national executive at 8.30pm. Ramaphosa has been in consultations with the leadership of the ANC on the changes he wanted to effect to the cabinet he inherited from former president Jacob Zuma‚ including structures such as the national executive committee‚ national working committee and the party’s top six officials. – TimesLIVE The official nominations by the Eastern Cape ANC have been a major letdown for Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma’s lobbyists, with branches overwhelmingly picking Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa to be the next president of the party. The election agency announced to delegates at the party’s provincial general council in East London yesterday that… December 1, 2017 East Cape pact with Mkhize paved way for Ramaphosa victory The Eastern Cape struck a deal with Zweli Mkhize to back off so that David Mabuza could be elected deputy president of the ANC, it emerged last night. This paved the way for the province to work together with Mpumalanga… December 19, 2017 SA waits with bated breath as leadership race nears climax As of today, South Africa is a step closer to seeing the back of President Jacob Zuma, as he is scheduled to deliver his last political report to more than 4 000 ANC voting delegates as the ruling party’s head.… December 16, 2017