The South African Police Service in Uitenhage has issued an urgent warning to the public to be wary of people phoning and offering jobs on behalf of the SAPS. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said it had come to the police’s attention that residents had been receiving calls from people pretending to be a police captain from Uitenhage. “The bogus cop will inform the receiver that if they are between the ages of 18 and 35 they may apply for vacant posts at the Uitenhage police station in Church Street,” Swart said. “The ‘policeman’ will arrange meetings with his clients and also request that R2 500 be paid to secure a specific vacant post.” Uitenhage acting station commander Colonel Andre Swart said: “The SAPS will always advertise vacancies in the newspapers or on our official website and interested recruits will only apply in writing through our human resource management department, situated in Chase Street, Uitenhage. There is a strict policy on recruitment, which we abide by. “The application form is available only at the recruitment office and clearly states that it [the job] is not for sale,” he said. He said anyone who received a call of this nature should ignore it as it was fraudulent. “Never commit to any payment. Application forms when advertised are free and under no circumstances is money requested,” Swart said.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Police swooped on several drug dens and made a number of arrests on drug-related charges in Uitenhage and Joubertina at the weekend. At 9am on Saturday, a 55-yearold man was arrested in Hillwacht Road, Kabah, Uitenhage. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said police searched the premises and found 10 dagga… January 8, 2018 A 23-year-old burglar was caught red handed after breaking into a Uitenhage restaurant – only a few doors from the police station – at about 11:30pm on Thursday night. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said that a security official spotted the man inside the restaurant after he threw a brick… February 3, 2017 Two suspected robbers hiding out in Port Elizabeth were arrested just hours after robbing a woman inside her Uitenhage home yesterday. The bust came after detectives tracked two of the five gunmen to a house in Bethelsdorp. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said detectives had worked around the clock to… November 10, 2016