The testimony of a witness to the murder of Naeem Desai was brought into question yesterday when the defence claimed that allegations made in a police statement differed significantly from what was said in court. During intense cross-examination, Ferdinand Valentine, 28, told the Port Elizabeth High Court that it was the fault of the police officer who took his statement that information he presented in his testimony was not included in the statement. Defence advocate Jodine Coertzen said it was improbable that he had seen who the shooter was because if so, the alleged assailant would have seen him too. “What you are trying to do is to say [the accused] who committed the crime are correct and I am lying,” a flustered Valentine told Coertzen. He was giving evidence against Deswin “Boetie Baas” Kleinbooi, 22, and Eston “Gans” Afrikaner, 19, who are charged with Desai’s murder. They face additional charges of robbery with aggravated circumstances and illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. Both pleaded not guilty. Last week, Judge Dayalin Chetty allowed Valentine to testify with the assistance of an intermediary as he has diminished mental capacity. Under cross-examination Valentine was adamant that he saw Kleinbooi and Afrikaner standing at the driver’s side of the Jadeed’s Bakery delivery truck as it was idling outside a Helenvale spaza shop early on May 12 2016. Valentine, who worked for Jadeed’s, testified that he left the shop to tell Desai the delivery was complete when he heard a gunshot. He said he had seen Afrikaner standing with a gun in his hand, pointed at the truck’s driver’s side window when the shot went off. He did not see the shot being fired. The next day, Valentine said, Kleinbooi threatened him as they drove past his deceased mother’s house. “[Boetie Baas] said if anyone of you go and [report what happened] then I will shoot you,” Valentine said. Coertzen questioned how Valentine was able to hear the alleged threat while the truck was moving in traffic. “I was able to hear because we drove slowly,” he said. Valentine said he told the police of the alleged threat two days after the shooting while giving a statement, but conceded that it was not contained in the statement submitted to court. He again did not mention it to the police the next day or when he spoke to prosecutor Garth Baartman. “Mr Baartman and Constable Peta are very busy people,” Valentine told the court. The trial continues. A single shot to the head was all it took to kill Port Elizabeth crime fighter Naeem Desai. It happened after a plan to rob the bread delivery van the businessman was driving. Testifying in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court yesterday, forensic pathologist Dr Prudent Mgobo said the gunshot entered… February 22, 2018 Two months before he was gunned down in Helenvale while doing deliveries, Port Elizabeth businessman Naeem Desai gave one of his alleged attackers a loaf of bread when he asked for food. This was the testimony of Ferdinand Valentine, 28, in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Friday. Valentine said… February 25, 2018 Henri van Breda will have to wait another day to hear if Judge Siraj Desai sees him as a victim of ill-treatment by police. At the trial-within-a-trial which began in the High Court in Cape Town on Friday‚ defence counsel Piet Botha has described Van Breda as a young man… May 31, 2017