Almost eight years after a horrific attack that saw her gang-raped over 16 hours, Andy Kawa was back in Port Elizabeth this week seeking justice by suing police for R5.8-million. Kawa, of Gauteng, was in the Port Elizabeth High Court for a civil claim against the police. She was abducted while walking on Kings Beach in 2010, held hostage and raped by unknown assailants in the sand dunes. She escaped from her abductors the following day. During a protest march along the same beachfront, highlighting the scourge of abuse and rape of women in South Africa, Kawa identified two men who were subsequently arrested. They were released due to lack of evidence. Kawa, 55, has now instituted a case against Minister of Police Fikile Mbalula, Brigadier Ronald Koll and two investigating officers assigned to her case. According to court papers, Kawa claimed the police breached their duty to investigate her allegations that she had been abducted, held hostage and raped, and that they delayed responding to a call by joggers after her escape. She also claimed police failed to search the area where her car had been left and broken into at the time. Kawa’s civil suit stems from her claim that she suffered post-traumatic stress and depression and had not returned to her investment brokerage consultancy since the attack. She is suing for medical expenses and loss of income, among others. The matter was postponed to July 16. Brian Hayward NELSON Mandela Bay councillor Nomvuselelo Tontsi has threatened to mobilise rape survivors to take the law into their own hands and cut off the penises of suspected rapists should police fail to arrest them. At the launch of the R13-million phase one upgrade of Kings Beach, which is… March 15, 2012 Hendrick Mphande BUSINESSWOMAN and rape survivor Andy Kawa has made an impassioned plea to the justice cluster to properly investigate cases and take action to end the abuse of vulnerable groups around the country. Kawa, who was gang-raped at King's Beach four years ago, joined a group of activists, including… November 26, 2013 AS the first institution to join the countrywide zero-tolerance campaign against rape and gender-based violence, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University yesterday launched social activist Andy Kawa's "Kwanele – enough is enough" brainchild. Kawa, 52 – the survivor of a brutal gang rape at Port Elizabeth's Kings Beach five years ago –… October 2, 2014