With two Soweto teams playing same formation, this could set trend for SA Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela is boldly predicting that Saturday’s Soweto derby against rivals Orlando Pirates could be a watershed game and provide a future benchmark for domestic soccer, as both mentors favour a 3-4-3 approach which is best suited to the domestic style. “This is one match I think is going to be a defining one‚” Komphela said. “From a tactical point of view‚ the setup for both teams is almost similar. “They both play 3-4-3 and you can see how Orlando Pirates will be coming. “If you look at teams that are playing with three defenders – look at Maritzburg United‚ Pirates‚ Chiefs. “[Platinum Stars coach] Roger de Sa tried it in the game against SuperSport United. Eric Tinkler has tried it. There is something about this concept of a three-man defence. “Orlando Pirates are playing it so well‚ we are playing it so well. “So I want to see what happens‚” he said of Saturday’s clash at Soccer City. Komphela said he was convinced that he would be at home in front of the television on Sunday rewatching the game over and over again to spot trends. “There is something that 3-4-3 gives and I think if ever there was a match between Chiefs and Pirates where I foresee sparks‚ this is it. “From an attack point of view‚ both teams will be very offensive. “The setup in terms of pressing – it is going to be a pressing game. “We might even move to a state where there is going to be chaos pressing. “Whoever has the ball is pressed and as soon as they lose the ball they press. “It will be a game where nobody gives space‚ gives time. “The ball almost rattles around, left‚ right centre, left‚ right centre. “I hope that Chiefs and Pirates can carry that and [bring] it to the match, and come Sunday when we look at the match [again] there must have been a definition of where the game should go in South Africa. “It is a primary responsibility for Chiefs‚ Pirates and Mamelodi Sundowns to define our national game‚” Komphela said. In the last derby‚ Chiefs played 3-4-1-2, with Siphiwe Tshabalala central in midfield and two strikers ahead of him, while Pirates played 3-4-2-1 with two players in a No 10 position and with a lone striker. The game still ended goalless‚ extending to five the number of stalemates in the last six Soweto derbies. – TimesLIVE A tricky week in which Kaizer Chiefs beat Mamelodi Sundowns and Orlando Pirates drew with Platinum Stars provided Amakhosi coach Steve Komphela with some tactical answers‚ he said after the Soweto derby draw on Saturday. After beating Sundowns 2-1 at FNB Stadium on Tuesday night‚ Komphela‚ who entered the week… October 22, 2017 Hopes rest on depths and range of skills A GROUP of fans behind the Kaizer Chiefs bench were excited to see Itumeleng Khune on Saturday, as they waved and clapped hands when he turned to greet them. Just a few days after agreeing in principle that he would rejoin Amakhosi,… August 3, 2015 DESPITE inconsistent results and a backlash from fans, Kaizer Chiefs should not be cautious in their approach to games, including the Soweto Derby, head coach Steve Komphela says. Komphela’s boys come up against arch-rivals Orlando Pirates in an Absa Premiership fixture at FNB Stadium tomorrow and the 48-year-old said they… January 29, 2016