The public protector has found Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown guilty of misleading Parliament and given President Cyril Ramaphosa 14 days to take action against her. The finding was revealed by DA MP Natasha Mazzone on Thursday evening. Mazzone had approached the public protector’s office about a reply Brown had given in response to a DA parliamentary question. Brown had denied that there had been an agreement between Eskom and Gupta-linked consultancy Trillian. However‚ reports later showed that either Trillian or a subsidiary company had invoiced Eskom for R266 million. The Gupta family‚ who are closely linked to former president Jacob Zuma‚ have been embroiled in allegations that they used their political influence to score lucrative business deals. “The DA urges President Cyril Ramaphosa to act swiftly against the Minister and immediately fire her from his Cabinet‚” Mazzone said in a statement‚ which includes the public protector’s report. “If the President is truly committed to building a government that is beyond reproach‚ he must immediately remove anyone who is found guilty of unethical behaviour from his Cabinet.” The report‚ dated February 22 2018‚ states: “The allegation that Minister Brown deliberately or inadvertently made a misleading statement to the National Assembly when she denied that these were contracts of engagement between Eskom and Trillian Capital Partners is substantiated.” The report goes on to say that Brown “inadvertently misled Parliament” and had violated the executive code of ethics through her “failure to act responsibly and in accordance with her constitutional and legal obligations to be accountable for Eskom as the Minister of Public Enterprises”. Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown has insisted that she has not lied to parliament, after the ANC said her submission to the legislature on the reappointment of Eskom chief executive Brian Molefe amounted to perjury. Brown said she was ready to defend her stance on Molefe to the ANC. She… May 26, 2017 Parliament's inquiry into state capture runs the risk of becoming a “kangaroo court”, according to Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown, after it heard testimony that she was “a liar”, an “atrocious minister” and responsible for the problems in Eskom. Eskom board spokesman Khulani Qoma did not hold back as he… November 15, 2017 Public enterprises minister Lynne Brown has been drawn into the saga around how the influential Gupta family acquired a mine that gained lucrative contracts from power utility Eskom. The amaBhungane Centre for Investigative Journalism reported on EWN on Thursday that Brown had misled parliament when she was asked whether Eskom had signed… May 18, 2017