Close to 150 Port Elizabeth police vehicles were almost left high and very dry for the weekend, after the provincial police head office failed to re-issue new petrol cards timeously. A crisis was narrowly averted when an urgent message was sent out yesterday to the Port Elizabeth police station and detective and unit commanders, asking them to arrange a standing advance for fuel. It emerged that 147 police cars in the Port Elizabeth area were without fuel cards, while the issue also affected other clusters around the province. A standing advance is when cash is drawn by the units and police stations, and used to refill vehicles. All the affected police cars’ petrol cards expired on January 31 – three days ago. Veteran police officials said it was the first time in their careers something like that had happened. Police insiders said most of the 147 vehicles were stranded at their offices as attempts to get the fuel advances approved were under way. The police’s provincial office is responsible for issuing the petrol cards to all police vehicles, and delivers them to the police stations, units and clusters. Yesterday’s message read: “Outstanding fuel cards will possibly only be available as from Wednesday.” However, provincial police spokeswoman Colonel Sibongile Soci said they were aware of the issue and would work throughout the weekend to ensure the cards would be ready by Monday. “Members will work over the weekend to ensure that all the cards are ready for collection by Monday. “All cluster commanders have been informed that cash advances must be withdrawn should a need arise, and to ensure that service delivery is not hampered.” Mount Road Cluster commander Major General Thembisile Patekile said he had ordered all those affected to draw an advance for petrol over the weekend. Patekile’s spokeswoman, Colonel Priscilla Naidu, said there would be no issue with service delivery and orders had been issued to ensure cash was allocated to those vehicles that needed petrol. “Those affected will simply draw a standing advance, which is where cash is withdrawn for each vehicle to full up with petrol,” she said. THREE robbers sauntered out with their loot right under the noses of police who had pulled into the Port Elizabeth petrol station to fix a punctured tyre. The robbers, who had been kicking the office door in when the unsuspecting police arrived, were forced to abandon their getaway car and… June 21, 2016 A GROUP of people travelling in a hijacked car managed to attract the sort of attention they could have done without when the vehicle overturned at a busy intersection in peak hour traffic – just as police were passing by. It is not known if they had spotted and were… May 31, 2016 Uitenhage police have arrested two men, including a Port Elizabeth police constable, after they allegedly robbed a foreigner of cash and car keys at the weekend. The incident began at a petrol station in Caledon Street at about 11pm on Saturday. Police spokesman Sergeant Majola Nkohli said it was alleged… March 13, 2017