The future of Eastern Cape premier Phumulo Masualle hangs in the balance as the party in the province gears up to reshuffle the provincial cabinet. On Monday next week‚ the party’s provincial executive committee (PEC) will be meeting, and it is expected that Masualle’s future will feature prominently in the discussions. A PEC member told TimesLIVE that PEC members were anxious about the matter and the meeting would give a guide as to how the province’s Number 1 will exit. “Hopefully we will finalise this thing on Monday. “We are also glad that it seems like even the national officials‚ who are the final arbiters and have the deciding vote‚ have considered the matter and are on our side‚” the PEC member said. Provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukaitobi confirmed the meeting‚ but when asked about the discussions on Masualle‚ he was mum‚ saying “it is not the intention” to discuss his future. It has been touted that Masualle will be replaced by former premier and current speaker of the provincial legislature Noxolo Kiviet. Kiviet served as the province’s premier from 2009 to 2014. Masualle took over from her‚ and would be finishing his term next year. Masualle contested the much-publicised Eastern Cape elective congress late last year‚ but lost to his then provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane. The conference’s outcomes were challenged after violence broke out between the two factions‚ injuring many. A task team led by Sbu Radebe was sent to the province to investigate what led to the fight. However, speaking with the Sunday Times last week‚ Radebe said the final report on their probe would not have any bearing on the outcomes of the conference. A major East Cape legislature reshuffle and shake-up in at least four municipalities is on the cards. This was announced by ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi at a media briefing at Calata House in King William’s Town, following a two-day provincial executive committee (PEC) meeting which ended yesterday. The municipalities… January 30, 2018 Party to grill premier and mayors on Mandela funds ANC bosses in the Eastern Cape have summoned premier Phumulo Masualle and three mayors to its provincial headquarters to be quizzed on the Nelson Mandela funeral funds scandal. Masualle, Buffalo City metro mayor Xola Pakati, OR Tambo mayor Nomakhosazana Meth and… December 8, 2017 Eastern Cape ANC provincial executive committee (PEC) members aligned to former provincial chairman Phumulo Masualle snubbed the first meeting of the PEC at the weekend. However, the meeting at Dan’s Country Lodge outside Mthatha went ahead – and a new provincial working committee was elected. This happened while there is… October 17, 2017