DA leader Mmusi Maimane has launched a national petition opposing the increase in VAT and has warned that the party will fight antipoor tax increases on all fronts. Speaking at the launch in Soshanguve‚ Tshwane‚ on Saturday‚ Maimane called Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s maiden budget in parliament on Wednesday “undoubtedly one of the most anti-poor budgets we have ever seen”‚ saying it amounted to an assault on the poor and the jobless. “Instead of cutting the fat and waste in government – unnecessary expenditure and bloated departments – and focusing on growth‚ the ANC chose to cut spending on services to poor people‚ including funding for housing‚ education‚ policing and local and provincial government‚” he said. He said the raising of VAT by 1 percentage point meant in effect that South Africans would all be paying 7.14% more tax on everyday goods and services. “This‚ combined with significant fuel levy increases‚ will make food and transport more expensive. “It will now be more expensive to be unemployed in South Africa. Life will get harder for the most vulnerable in society over the coming months. “As I have said‚ I will offer President Ramaphosa my support when he takes action that will benefit the country. “However‚ raising VAT and transport levies will not benefit the country – it will do the very opposite, and it will hit the poor and the jobless the hardest.” A VAT increase‚ he said‚ only exacerbated the inequality between the haves and the have-nots. “Over half of our nation lives in poverty‚ and almost 10 million South Africans are without a job. “Those South Africans should have benefited from the budget‚ not been bruised and battered by it. “The ANC cannot steal public money and then expect us‚ the people‚ to pay for it.” Raising VAT and other taxes was not a necessity. Instead of raising VAT‚ the ANC could rather have cut the fat in government‚ Maimane said. The ANC is punishing the poor for its mistakes of the last nine years by increasing value added tax (VAT) and personal income tax for low income earners. That was DA leader Mmusi Maimane’s view after the budget speech yesterday. Gigaba announced that VAT would be increased for the first… February 22, 2018 The possibility of hike in value added tax has been revealed as a major concern of opposition parties and civil society ahead of Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s budget speech on Wednesday. A revenue shortfall of over R50-billion‚ announced by Gigaba last year‚ has raised fears that the country’s poor may… February 21, 2018 Eskom must declare the rolling blackouts a national crisis, DA parliamentary leader Mmusi Maimane said on Tuesday (09/12/2014). Maimane was speaking outside the offices of the public enterprises ministry in Pretoria where he handed over a list of demands addressed to minister Lynne Brown. "The president, the public enterprises minister,… December 9, 2014