The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality unveiled three unmarked cars yesterday that will be used in the fight against illegal dumping. The vehicles are all equipped with state-of-the-art surveillance equipment. Mayoral spokesman Sibongile Dimbaza said the technology used was so advanced that illegal dumping activities would be able to be detected from more than a kilometre away by day and night. “The metro is battling with unwarranted illegal dumping by residents and businesses, who are plunging the city into a state of filth,” Dimbaza said. Yesterday’s launch, was aimed at sending a strong message to those who take part in this unlawful act. ‘The city’s town rangers, metro police and members of the SAPS will work in tandem in patrolling targeted communities where this bad habit mostly takes place,” he said. “This is our declaration against illegal dumping. “The city will put up boards in hotspots to warn offenders about the consequences.” The city would issue R2 000 spot fines to offenders. Repeat offenders would have their vehicles impounded. Confiscation of vehicles and fines part of new phase in war on litter Nelson Mandela Bay’s “ghost squad” will target illegal dumpsites to catch the crooks in the act – with vehicles confiscated from repeat offenders. This was announced by mayor Athol Trollip yesterday at the launch of the second… October 13, 2017 Zandile Mbabela A TOWNSHIP non- profit organisation, fed up with the illegal dumping that plagues parts of the city, has called on the community and the municipality to help rid the metro of this dirty practice while creating awareness about environmental health. Picketing outside the Pendla Primary School in Ntshekisa… September 17, 2012 Residents say stepping up collections has failed to make an impact THE Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality is fighting a losing battle in its war against illegal-dumping, despite pumping millions of rands into the problem. Clothing, old tyres, soiled nappies and even electrical goods are strewn over illegal dumps across the… September 21, 2015