 The recent news that sirloin steak, chicken, mackerel and avocados could help dieters lose weight because they trigger a reaction in the brain which makes people feel fuller has been greeted with joy by foodies. A study by the University of Warwickshire late last year identified the cells in the brain – called tanycytes – which detect nutrients in food and help trigger feelings of satiety. Crucially some foods contain types of amino acids which stimulate the tanycytes more than others. The list of “feel full for longer” foods is: Here are a few recipes from The Louise Parker Method: Lean for Life and Lean for Life: The Cookbook, all of which contain some of these “diet-friendly” ingredients. 75g smoked mackerel fillets, flaked
Juice of ½ lemon
50g low-fat Greek yoghurt
50g low-fat cream cheese
Handful of flat leaf parsley, chopped (optional)
Ground black pepper
Crudites of cucumber sticks, sliced
Red and yellow peppers
Celery sticks
Sugarsnap peas Blend the smoked mackerel, lemon juice, yoghurt, cream cheese and black pepper with a fork.
Stir in the parsley, if using.
Serve with the vegetable cruditeés. ¾ cup ready-made Beluga lentils, cold or warmed accordingto your preference
12 cherry tomatoes, halved
½ red pepper, cored, deseeded and chopped
1.2 red chilli, deseeded and chopped
1 cup broccoli florets, blanched
Handful of flat leaf parsley, chopped
1 tablespoon good balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon olive oil
50g (1 ¾ oz) goats’ cheese, crumbled Mix together the lentils, tomatoes, pepper, chilli, broccoli and parsley in a bowl, Drizzle over the balsamic vinegar and olive oil and season to taste.
Top with the crumbled goats’ cheese to serve. 125g chicken mince
1 spring onion, chopped
½ clove garlic, crushed
½ tsp grated lemon zest
½ tsp sea salt
½ tsp black pepper
½ tsp olive oil For the pomegranate slaw:
1 cup finely sliced Savoy cabbage
1 tsp groundnut oil
½ apple, halved, cored and sliced
Juice of ½ lime
2 tbsp pomegranate seeds Mix the mince with the spring onion, crushed garlic, lemon zest, salt and pepper, then form the mixture into two patties.
Heat olive oil in a griddle pan over a medium heat and griddle patties until golden and cooked through.
To make the slaw, stir-fry cabbage over a high heat in the groundnut oil for 6 minutes, adding a tablespoon of water every 2 minutes.
Remove from heat and add apple, lime juice and seasoning.
Serve patties on the bed of warm slaw and sprinkle with pomegranate seeds. I’ve never seen my husband quite as proud as he was the night he accidentally invented this dish. Poor bloke was home alone, with nothing but chicken fillets, wrinkly passion fruit and a cos lettuce in the fridge.
I’m loathe to admit it, but it’s damn good and I love it for a light supper when I fancy something zingy, fresh and idiot-proof. Serves 4 For the chicken: 1 tbsp olive oil
1 tbsp jerk seasoning
4 x 150g mini chicken fillets
Whole little gem leaves, to serve
For the dressing: 1 tbsp olive oil
Pulp of 4 passion fruit
Juice of 2 limes
Sea salt and black pepper
Pinch of stevia
For the salsa: 1 handful of coriander, chopped
4 spring onions, finely chopped
2 red chillies, finely chopped
4 tomatoes, deseeded and chopped Preheat the oven to 200°CC.
Blend olive oil and jerk seasoning and use this to marinate the chicken, coating it thoroughly, ideally for 1 hour (but I quite often rush it in 5 minutes).
Place on a baking tray and cook for 10-12 minutes until cooked through. Set aside to cool.
Meanwhile, prepare the dressing by whisking together all the ingredients. Add the stevia last and only if you fancy a little sweetness as this will depend on how ripe your fruit is. Add it slowly, as too much can ruin it and you can’t take it out.
Now mix together all the ingredients for the salsa.
You can either tear up the chicken into little shreds or place them whole into little crispy lettuce leaves, top with some salsa and a little dressing.
Get messy and enjoy. Serves 4
For the pork:
1 tsp cornflour
1 tsp English mustard powder
Sea salt and black pepper
4 trimmed pork loin medallions or chops, each 150-175g
2 tbsp olive oil
8 shallots, finely sliced
50ml (scant ¼ cup) cider
2 tbsp wholegrain mustard
1 garlic clove, very finely chopped or crushed
150 ml (2/3 cup) single cream
Handful of flat leaf parsley, chopped
For the apple sauce: 2 Granny Smith apples, peeled and roughly chopped
1 sweet red apple, skin on, chopped
For the sauteed peas and lettuce: 200g frozen peas
4-6 cos lettuces, finely sliced
Dash of cider Preheat oven to 190°CC.
On a flat plate, mix together cornflour, mustard powder and seasoning and coat the medallions or chops on both sides.
Heat half the oil in a large frying pan and sear each medallion for 3-4 minutes on each side, until brown.
Place in oven for 15-20 minutes.
Put the apples in a small ovenproof dish with a dash of water and a tiny pinch of salt and cook in the oven for the same time as the pork. Simply give them a stir once they’re done.
While the pork and apples are in the oven, prepare the mustard sauce. Cook the shallots very gently in remaining tablespoon of olive oil until soft and caramelised. Increase heat and add cider until it deglazes the pan. Reduce heat and add the wholegrain mustard and garlic, season with pepper and finally add the cream.
Now prepare the veggies by throwing the frozen peas and lettuce into a wok with a little glug of cider and in 3-4 minutes they will be ready. Season to taste.
Sprinkle pork with parsley and serve with the veggies, with a tablespoon or so of the mustard sauce and a dollop of apple sauce. IF your soul finds rest in the ancient landscapes of the Karoo, or if you have always been drawn to the altogether truer and more wholesome life that the countryside seems to offer, you will find Graaff-Reinet chef and guesthouse owner Gordon Wright’s new cookbook a delight. Louise chats to… January 25, 2014 THIS week I dipped into yet another cookery book aimed squarely at those for whom the kitchen is unfamiliar territory, for instance school leavers or young adults having to hunt and gather for the first time. January 25, 2014 WIN 2 copies of the Great South African Cookbook Two readers can each win a copy of the Great South African Cookbook, which retails for R450. See The Herald today for how to enter.   IT is hard to flip through this gorgeous new cookery book without at least a… July 18, 2016