China’s plan for President Xi Jinping to remain in office indefinitely has sparked social media opposition, drawing comparisons to North Korea’s ruling dynasty and charges by a Hong Kong pro-democracy activist of creating a dictator. The social media reaction late on Sunday quickly saw China swing into a concerted propaganda push by yesterday, blocking some articles and publishing pieces praising the party. The ruling Communist Party on Sunday proposed to remove a constitutional clause limiting presidential service to two terms in office, meaning Xi, who also heads the party and military, might never have to retire. The proposal, which will be passed by delegates loyal to the party at next month’s annual meeting of China’s largely rubber-stamp parliament, is part of a package of amendments to the country’s constitution. It will also add Xi’s political thought to the constitution, already added to the party constitution last year. But it seems the party will have its work cut out trying to convince some in China that the move will not end up giving Xi too much power.  – Reuters Chinese President Xi Jinping is set to meet the head of Venezuela's National Assembly on Monday (21/07/2014) and sign agreements that will tie his energy-hungry country to the South American oil-rich state. Xi's meeting with Diosdado Cabello comes on the last day of his two-day visit, and after he and… July 21, 2014 Xi Jinping Thought will now be taught, researched and promoted in universities across China, ensuring that the leader’s eponymous philosophy is implanted in students’ hearts and minds. At least 20 universities have established research institutes for Xi’s ideology, which was enshrined in the Communist Party’s constitution during its 19th national… October 31, 2017 China hits back on queen’s comments THE British media is riddled with “barbarians” who would benefit from a lesson in manners from China’s ancient civilisation, a state-run newspaper said yesterday after Queen Elizabeth called some Chinese officials “very rude”. In a rare diplomatic gaffe, the British monarch was caught on… May 13, 2016