Former public protector Thuli Madonsela says that although President Cyril Ramaphosa’s appointment put the country on a pedestal of hope‚ the country is not yet at a summit. Madonsela was speaking on Tuesday at the launch of an inaugural festival to commemorate Human Rights Day‚ a joint effort by her foundation‚ Khulisa Social Solutions and the Constitution Hill Precinct. Madonsela said she was happy with the way the former president Jacob Zuma dealt with his way out. “I welcome president Zuma’s resignation and the dignity with which he addressed the nation. When you are the captain of the ship you must have people who are following you – whether you are doing well or doing badly‚” said Madonsela. Madonsela said that if one reaches a stage where the people they are supposed to lead are not persuaded or inspired by them‚ “it’s a good thing to step aside”. Speaking of President Ramaphosa‚ she said that he has “put the country as a whole on the pedestal of hope. But a pedestal of hope is just a pedestal. It gives us higher ground to jump on to the next phase. It’s not a summit.” From government we want diligence‚ we want integrity and fairness‚ she said. Madonsela cleared the air about speculations that she might join politics hand in hand with the president. “I realised that my calling is to work with civil society. Last year we were on the verge of the winter of despair again… where civil society had become a bystander. “My message to South Africa is that each one of us should and can lift up someone else. It’s part of ubuntu: I am because you are. If I improve your fortunes‚ my fortunes will be improved too‚” Madonsela said. – TimesLIVE It seems that the Public Protector‚ Busisiwe Mkhwebane‚ is dancing to President Jacob Zuma’s tune and acting on his behalf to undo the valuable work done by her predecessor‚ Thuli Madonsela‚ the Democratic Alliance says. The party was responding to reports that Mkhwebane has laid a criminal charge against Madonsela‚… November 28, 2016 Public Protector Thuli Madonsela on Thursday thanked the public for entrusting the Chapter 9 institution with investigating spending at President Jacob Zuma’s controversial Nkandla residence. Addressing the media at her offices in Pretoria‚ Madonsela described the Constitutional Court ruling that reaffirmed the powers of her office as “ground breaking”‚ saying… March 31, 2016 DEPUTY Defence Minister Kebby Maphatsoe has 72 hours to retract his "spy" allegations against public protector Thuli Madonsela, as calls mount for him to be fired. Comments by Maphatsoe over the weekend that Madonsela was a CIA spy tasked to undermine the ANC and government and create a puppet regime… September 9, 2014