Police have clamped down on the “unacceptable culture” of torching vehicles and shooting randomly into the air at the funerals of car hijackers in the Eastern Cape. The hijackers‚ known by the popular title of “Amagintsa”‚ steal cars only to burn them later during the funerals of their colleagues. “Some of them would go to the extent of shooting randomly in the air in any direction‚ a conduct that is equivalent to attempted murder or murder of innocent people‚” said police spokesman Captain Khaya Tonjeni on Friday. “This behaviour is unacceptable and endangers members of the public at graveyards and those attending the funeral‚ including innocent bystanders‚” he said in a statement. During the launch of Operation Fiela 2 police in the province learnt that a number hijackers’ funerals would be held last weekend. A large contingent of police were deployed at graveyards and popular funeral venues. Eastern Cape provincial commissioner‚ Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga issued instructions for anyone found following the trend to be arrested. “We were in Port Elizabeth with the chairperson of the portfolio committee on safety … launching Operation Fiela 2 when we noted criminals who were trying to hijack cars. Some went to the VW plant to rob seven cars but police managed to recover some of those stolen vehicles‚” said Ntshinga. “We sent our members to stop them in their tracks. Even in funerals we deployed police vehicles and members to protect the public.” Soldiers on Mozambican border open fire as cops chase hijacker SOUTH African soldiers operating along the Mozambican border – with orders to “shoot and immobilise” any threat – ambushed police and vehicle-tracking operatives in hot pursuit of a hijacked truck. In a case of mistaken identity which nearly cost the… July 22, 2015 An off-duty policeman turned the tables on a pair of would-be hijackers, shooting one of them and sending the other one fleeing last night. The policeman then arrested the wounded hijacker. The second man is still at large. The two men approached the private vehicle of the off-duty Flying… July 21, 2016 Gauteng police were questioning a man after a four-year-old boy was killed in a hijacking in Reiger Park, east of Johannesburg, a spokeswoman said on Monday (21/07/2014). "The man is being questioned but he is not a suspect," said Colonel Noxolo Kweza. "No arrests have been made and we are… July 21, 2014