US military veterans are putting their deadly combat skills to good use protecting rhinos from poachers in South Africa. These highly trained former soldiers “run towards the sound of gunfire”‚ not away from it. Ryan Tate‚ a former Marine‚ came up with the idea after watching a documentary on poaching. “I saw a rhino with its face cut off‚ how they tranquilised the animal and put it to sleep. I cried for a good five days and decided hey‚ there are more important things in life than making money‚” he said. He formed an outfit called Veterans Empowered To Protect African Wildlife (VetPaw) which harnesses the skills of former US soldiers to train‚ assist and advise rangers in counter-poaching operations. Rhino Shield‚ an award-winning short documentary‚ shows the work the former soldiers are doing in South Africa. Jeff‚ one of the veterans acting as a team leader‚ says in the documentary: “I don’t want to brag or anything but hopefully some of the most dangerous people on the planet are now protecting these animals that they (poachers) are trying to get to.” “When I returned to civilian life after the Marine Corps‚ I lost myself. I didn’t really know what I was here for‚” Tate said on their website (http://vetpaw.org/). He joined the US military after the Twin Tower attacks in 9/11. Years later he was moved by the atrocities of elephant and rhino poaching‚ and the devastation it was having on East African communities. Aware that many highly skilled US veterans were unemployed when they returned to life in a civilian setting‚ he saw an opportunity for them to serve in a different capacity.  RHINO SHIELD – South Africa – Short Documentary Film from Billy Ward Photography on Vimeo. – TimesLIVE KRUGER NATIONAL PARK, South Africa — Rhino poachers in South Africa now risk giving themselves away when they shoot thanks to a high-tech, gunfire-detection system being piloted in the country’s flagship Kruger National Park. The stakes are high, for rhinos are being slain in escalating numbers for their prized horns,… September 5, 2014 Cops probe killing of more than 90 rhinos Three suspects allegedly caught red-handed with a rhino horn outside Grahamstown last year could be linked to a countrywide poaching syndicate responsible for the slaughter of more than 90 rhinos. According to police, since the trio’s arrest in June last year there… February 6, 2017 The game ranger with a rifle slung across his shoulders follows a bush trail through South Africa's famed Kruger National Park, alert to the slightest sound or movement. He faces threats not only from lions and elephants but from humans as well - heavily-armed poachers who stalk the park's wilderness… August 1, 2014