Developmental economist and South Africa’s first black governor of the SA Reserve Bank‚ Tito Mboweni‚ says he will not be a contender for a cabinet minister position under new president Cyril Ramaphosa. In the early hours of the morning‚ Mboweni took to Twitter to share: “Against the wisdom of my team‚ please don’t tell them this. It’s between us‚ I am not available for Minister of Finance.You cannot recycle the same people all over again. It is time for young people. We are available for advisory roles. Not cabinet. We have done that.”  Many people felt his advice would be vital to help steer the economy in the right direction.     However‚ Mboweni‚ who also served as labour minister under former president Nelson Mandela‚ may have disliked some of the replies he got to his tweet – especially the references to age as he prepares to mark his 59th birthday. His birthday is coming up on March 16.  Ramaphosa is widely expected to pick a team of ministers that will support his aims as outlined in Friday’s state of the nation address. The timing of a cabinet reshuffle is not known‚ as yet. ANC bigwig Tito Mboweni has denied he was referring to Higher Education Minister Blade Nzimande in Facebook comments this week. "...Why would anybody think that I was referring to Dr Blade Nzimande?" he asked on his Facebook page on Friday (23/05/2014). On Wednesday, Mboweni on his Facebook page clarified why… May 23, 2014 Cindy Preller A PROUD son of the Eastern Cape, Sipho Pityana, has taken over the reins as board chairman of AngloGold Ashanti, one of Africa's top 40 companies, employing 60000 people around the world. Pityana, 54, who grew up in New Brighton, Port Elizabeth, was elected unanimously by the AngloGold… February 18, 2014 Black Monday has left many South Africans seeing red. They took to Twitter to voice their concerns about the call to wear black in reaction to the growing concern over President Jacob Zuma's recent Cabinet reshuffling. The reshuffle saw Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and his deputy Mcebisi Jonas being sacked.… April 3, 2017