An increase in Value Added Tax (VAT) from 14% to 15% is the “correct approach” but will have a major impact on household budgets‚ says PricewaterhouseCoopers. PwC was responding to the announcement by Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba in his budget speech on Wednesday. The increase will come into effect from April 1 and is expected to raise R22-billion in additional revenue. “This will have a major impact on households’ already tight budgets‚” PwC said. PwC said the implementation of the VAT increase for certain businesses would also be complex‚ and the implementation date of April 1 did not leave much time to allow businesses to effect the necessary changes. PwC said the increase in VAT was the correct approach‚ “as we see further reliance on indirect taxes”. “This raises large amounts of revenue with relatively small increases in rates due to its broad base and economic efficiency. The effect that there is no amended list of zero-rated foodstuffs is positive as it maintains the integrity and efficiency of the South African VAT system.” &lt;/<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">&#65279;</span> Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has announced an increase of 1 percentage point in the value-added tax (VAT) rate in the 2018 budget, raising it to 15% in the first adjustment to taxation on goods and services under the ANC government. The first VAT increase in 25 years, which kicks in… February 21, 2018 THE cost of electronic services sourced from overseas is set to increase – and that will affect people ranging from iTunes listeners to doctors reading international publications. From June 1, 14% value-added tax (VAT) will be imposed on these sales. The move follows National Treasury having gazetted a note of… April 15, 2014 Growing middle class presents huge opportunities despite challenges, writes Dumile Sibindana AFRICA, like developing countries around the globe, is seeing the emergence of a growing middle class as personal incomes have increased over the years. According to World Bank estimates, the continent is home to one billion people and its… April 4, 2016