If the Madibaz want to challenge for a Varsity Cup playoff berth it is crucial they emerge with a win over a struggling Central University of Technology (CUT) Ixias side in Bloemfontein tonight. Both teams are winless this season and will not want another loss behind their names at this early stage of the campaign. Madibaz coach David Maidza is demanding that his team up their game in Bloemfontein after they slipped to a 27-17 defeat to Ikey Tigers in Port Elizabeth last week. In two games CUT Ixias have leaked 118 points, which suggests they could be among the teams facing a relegation battle at the end of the season. Last week CUT Ixias slumped to a 48-21 defeat against the University of Johannesburg and they must be concerned about their defensive frailties. “We did not control the game at all against Ikeys and I felt that we played straight into their hands,” Maidza said. “The Madibaz can improve on their first game. I wish we had got a better result. We will improve, and this is a side I am very confident about.” CUT Ixias coach Tiaan Liebenberg has made three changes to the team that lost against UJ last week. The Bloemfontein side have conceded 15 tries in two games, and managed to score only two tries. “The two losses that we took were obviously against two of the best sides in the competition and I feel we were in the game against UJ,” Liebenberg said. “There were a lot of positives that we took out of that game and we will definitely build on the confidence the team took from that. “We will not change a lot, but I do think we need to execute better if we want to have a chance against a very good Madibaz side.” Tonight’s teams: CUT Ixias: 15 Dimitrio Tieties, 14 Masego Toolo, 13 Ruan Wasserman, 12 Heinrich Bitzi, 11 Dean Jacobs, 10 Denver Kleu, 9 Ruben Heymans, 8 Gerhardus Nel, 7 Rayno Nel (captain), 6 Ruan Smit, 5 Brendon Fortuin, 4 Sylvester Makakole, 3 Stefan van Schalkwyk, 2 Tiaan Erasmus, 1 Quintin Vorster. Replacements: 16 Johannes Terblanche, 17 Raynard Esterhuizen, 18 LW Viljoen, 19 Isiah Bila, 20 Arne van Rensburg, 21 Tiisetso Madonsela, 22 Karabo Maqeba, 23 Johannes Nel Madibaz: 15 Michael Botha, 14 Athenkosi Mayinje, 13 Siphumelele Msutwana, 12 Riaan Esterhuizen (captain), 11 Lindelwe Zungu, 10 Simon Bolze, 9 Lovu Claassen, 8 Justin Hollis, 7 Wynand Grassman, 6 Henry Brown, 5 Gerrit Huisamen, 4 Luyolo Dapula, 3 Dylan Barendse, 2 Jedwyn Harty, 1 Nicolas Roebeck. Replacements: 16 JP Jamieson, 17 Tembelihle Yase, 18 Similile Qinela, 19 Robert Izaks, 20 Jayson Reinecke, 21 Sibusiso Ngcokovane, 22 Henrique Olivier, 23 Jordan Koekemoer Coach Maidza wants more from team AFTER two matches, demanding Madibaz coach David Maidza says his team’s performances are still not up to scratch as they bid to make the Varsity Cup semifinals for a third consecutive season defeat against Pukke on the opening day of the season, followed by a… February 19, 2015 George Byron MADIBAZ head coach David Maidza wants rugby fans to turn the NMMU Stadium into a fortress for his team when they clash with the Pukke in a crunch Varsity Cup showdown tonight (7pm). "We encourage the whole of PE, especially the students, to come and 'back their boytjies'… February 24, 2014 NMMU side to go all-out from Cup start THE Madibaz plan to hit the ground running when they open their Varsity Cup campaign with a tough encounter against University of Johannesburg at the UJ Stadium tonight. Bruised from last year’s campaign, which saw them crash to six defeats in seven… February 8, 2016