Eskom’s chief generation officer Matshela Koko‚ who is implicated in awarding contracts to a company linked to his stepdaughter‚ is facing a fresh disciplinary inquiry. Koko was back in the Labour Court on Tuesday to challenge an earlier ultimatum issued by the parastatal that he either resign or be fired. He had planned to argue‚ in a responding affidavit submitted to the court‚ that the power utility had not followed proper procedure when its newly appointed board gave him the ultimatum. But that argument‚ according to Eskom‚ was no longer valid as the ultimatum had been dropped‚ fresh disciplinary charges had been instituted and he was on suspension. The Sunday Times reported in 2017 that Impulse International‚ a company in which his stepdaughter Koketso Choma owned a stake‚ was awarded tenders worth close to R1-billion‚ allegedly without proper processes being followed. Koko said at the time that he had no influence over the awarding of the tenders. An internal disciplinary hearing initially found him not guilty on charges he had acted to benefit his stepdaughter. He was later presented with the ultimatum to resign or be fired by the new board – which he flatly rejected. In his replying affidavit submitted in court on Tuesday‚ Koko had planned to deny allegations that he was a central player in the collapse of corporate governance at the utility. Eskom spokesman Khulu Phasiwe confirmed on Tuesday that Koko faced a new disciplinary inquiry. – TimesLIVE Embattled Eskom executive Matshela Koko has turned to the Labour Court to fight an attempt by Eskom management to terminate his services over R1 billion in contracts awarded to his stepdaughter’s company. Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe confirmed Koko met acting CEO Phakamani Hadebe on Thursday. "I can confirm that Mr… January 26, 2018 While suspended Eskom chief claims he reported conflict of interest, hearing told it was not on system Suspended acting Eskom chief executive Matshela Koko has been accused of failing to follow proper internal declaration procedures to alert Eskom to a conflict of interest, which has resulted in him facing disciplinary… November 27, 2017 Eskom has suspended its chief financial officer‚ Anoj Singh‚ and plans to take disciplinary action against former acting chief executive Matshela Koko. "Mr Matshela Koko’s disciplinary hearing has been scheduled to commence within the next two weeks‚" Eskom said in a statement. "Both Messrs Singh and Koko will be afforded… September 29, 2017