Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids has been cleared by his doctor to fly to Wales for his team’s PRO14 match against the Ospreys in Swansea on Friday. Davids did not travel with the team to Ireland last week and was not pitch side when the Kings crashed to a heavy 59-10 defeat against Ulster in Belfast on Friday. When asked why Davids had not made the trip, officials cited medical reasons and would not elaborate further. The head coach role was filled by forwards coach Barend Pieterse. On Monday, Kings officials said Davids had an appointment with his doctor, and yesterday they said he had been medically cleared to fly to Europe. Davids is expected to link up with the team in Swansea today as they bid to break a 14-game losing streak. One of the first issues Davids will have to deal with on his arrival in Swansea is the injury situation in the Kings camp. Following the Belfast clash, Kings team doctor Clement Plaatjies reported that scrumhalf Rowan Gouws and prop forward Dayan van der Westhuizen had sustained ankle injuries. “We’ll only be sure of their availability in the next day or two once we’ve had a chance to see how they respond to treatment but Rowan’s ankle ligament sprain, in particular, is cause for concern,” Plaatjies said. There are also concerns around the fitness of flyhalf Martin du Toit, who was forced to leave the field late in the game against Ulster. After their game against the Ospreys, the Kings round off their European tour with a tough game against Conference B table-toppers Leinster in Dublin. The Kings are expected to name their team tomorrow.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. Interim Southern Kings head coach Barend Pieterse is facing selection headaches ahead of his team’s PRO14 clash against the Ospreys in Swansea on Friday. After a heavy 59-10 defeat against Ulster, some of Pieterse’s players found themselves in the medical room at Belfast’s Kingspan Stadium. Pieterse is standing in for… February 13, 2018 AN EARLY “iron curtain” has been dropped around the Southern Kings as their Super Rugby preparations start to build up a head of steam. Supporters will not be able to glean much about the make-up of the Kings after officials decided to shut the doors on their preparations for their… January 26, 2016 Young guns Velleman, Jaer ready for selection There was good news for Southern Kings head coach Deon Davids ahead of his team’s Super Rugby clash against defending champions the Highlanders on Saturday. After a month-long break because of the international window, two of his most promising young guns have recovered… June 29, 2016