A picture of a woman lying with her newborn baby on a mattress placed on the floor of the maternity ward at the Bophelong Hospital in Mahikeng has gone viral‚ thrusting the apparently overcrowded hospital into the spotlight. On Monday‚ the North West Department of Health told TimesLIVE that it was aware of the crisis at the hospital. “There is a planned expansion of beds. The situation is worsened by the fact that Lehurutshe is also referring operations of caesarian sections to Mafikeng due to non-operation of their theatre‚” said department spokesman Tebogo Lekgethwane. Lekgethwane said the Lehurutshe had since fixed up its maternity ward and the situation was expected to improve. In September‚ Lehurutse referred 62 patients to Bophelong. A further 109 were referred in October while 127 were referred in December‚ he said. Lekgethwane could not immediately say how many patients the ward was certified to admit‚ neither was he able to provide answers on whether the department had deployed more staff to deal with the overcrowding. During the state of the nation address debate‚ EFF MP Delisile Ngwenya called on President Cyril Ramaphosa to address the situation at the hospital. “As we speak now‚ Mr President‚ At Bophelong Hospital Mafikeng‚ North West‚ their maternity ward looks like where you would keep your buffalos‚” Ngwenya said. “New mothers are subjected to the most degrading conditions where they even have to sleep on the floor with their newborn babies‚” she added. Besides the overcrowding at the hospital‚ some patients have complained about the lack of security at the hospital. “When I was in Bophelong Hospital on the 17th Dec 2017… the nurses told us there was a person trying to steal babies from our ward‚ I had to guard my baby the whole night‚” one former patient said on Facebook. Restaurant manager forgotten in wrong ward A The restaurant manager, who was forgotten in the wrong ward for weeks, said he witnessed patients drinking alcohol, smoking and defecating on the floor. Victor van Niekerk, 23, also almost got stabbed when two visitors started an argument in the ward he was… May 19, 2014 PREGNANT women are being treated on mattresses on the floor of Port Elizabeth's Dora Nginza Hospital due to a chronic shortage of hospital beds. The crisis has been caused by an increase in patients from the rural areas due to the collapse of basic health care there. Eastern Cape… March 5, 2014 Critically ill people have had to walk seven flights of stairs for medical attention as Port Elizabeth’s Provincial Hospital lifts stood still for weeks after the Department of Health fell behind in paying companies to repair them. In one incident towards the end of last month, a cancer patient allegedly… October 9, 2017