The mother of two-year-old Sinothando, who was abandoned at the accident and emergency unit at Dora Nginza Hospital in Port Elizabeth last week, was arrested in Kwazakhele yesterday. It is believed that the 23-year-old woman went to the hospital on Thursday, claimed she needed to use the bathroom and then left without her child. The toddler, who identified himself only as Sinothando, was admitted to a ward later that day before being taken to a place of safety, where he is still being taken care of. Social worker Pamela Rubushe said the hospital had received two phone calls yesterday with information about the boy. “The boy was taken to a place of safety because we did not want him to be contaminated by anything, being here in the ward with other sick children,” Rubushe said. “This morning [yesterday] I got a phone call from someone known as Ayanda, saying she was related to the mother of the child. She told me that the mother was at a friend’s house in Kwazakhele.” Rubushe said later in the day she had received another call. “I got a call from the paternal grandmother, who inquired about the wellbeing of the boy, claiming she had sent her son previously to collect his child,” she said. Rubushe referred both family members to the Department of Social Development for further investigation into the matter. She said toddlers were almost never abandoned at the hospital, but Sinothando was the third child to be abandoned there so far this year. Port Elizabeth police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said police arrested the mother just before midday yesterday in Kwazakhele. He said she would appear in the New Brighton Magistrate’s Court today. Social workers and the police are looking for the mother of a two-year-old boy abandoned at the Accident and Emergency Unit at Dora Nginza Hospital in Port Elizabeth last week. Social worker Pamela Rubushe said the child, who was about two years old, had not once asked for his mother.… February 26, 2018 THE teenage mother who abandoned her baby at Dora Nginza Hospital earlier this week and disappeared was arrested late yesterday afternoon – while buying beer in a bar. Hospital social worker Pamela Rubushe said she had been inundated with calls from people who provided information to help her trace the… April 1, 2016 SHE might have been born on the street and abandoned by her mother, but she stole the hearts of scores of Nelson Mandela Bay residents, who not only helped trace her family but also donated clothes, nappies, blankets and toiletries. The Herald readers, Project Sparkle members and anonymous donors have… April 4, 2016