Striding confidently with his head up and chest out‚ President Cyril Ramaphosa led a group of about 100 people on a morning walk to promote a healthy lifestyle at dawn on Tuesday. Residents joined Ramaphosa at 5:30am at the Guguletu Sports Centre in Cape Town‚ from where they set off in jovial spirits on a walk of more than 5km to Athlone Stadium. South Africa’s new president aims to “get South Africa fit” this year and led by example‚ barely breaking a sweat. “I have heard many South Africans telling me this morning that they want to drop the belly. I walk to reflect on the previous day and think about the day that is ahead‚” he said.  At the end of the walk he took questions from those who had joined him and explained: “I want my tummy to fall so I am going to continue walking.” Asked if there was time to reshuffle his cabinet before the budget speech on Wednesday‚ he chuckled and replied: “Well‚ this is the time to walk‚ to reflect even about cabinet and all that‚ so this gives me time to reflect as well.” During his Sona‚ Ramaphosa said that promoting a healthy lifestyle was one of the major features of his mandate in the coming year. He is expected to respond to the debate on his state of the nation address in the National Assembly later in the day.  – TimesLIVE Would we be correct in saying South Africa's new president could be a fitness freak? He may be dealing with serious matters‚ like the state of the nation address or the looming budget speech but Cyril Ramaphosa is consistent in his morning walks. Those who jog or walk along Cape… February 19, 2018 ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa kick-started the launch of the Nelson Mandela centennial celebrations by receiving holy communion at the St George’s Cathedral in Cape Town on Sunday. Ramaphosa‚ who was accompanied by a few ANC bigwigs‚ including Pule Mabe‚ Nomaindia Mfeketo and Khaya Magaxa‚ avoided questions about President Jacob Zuma’s… February 11, 2018 South Africa’s Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa was trying to “prevent further loss of life” when he intervened in a wildcat strike that ended with the police killing 34 miners, he told an inquiry on Monday (11/08/2014). Ramaphosa, who led a historic strike for fairer pay for black miners under apartheid… August 11, 2014