Mthatha police are appealing for information after an award-winning search and rescue dog went missing. Olive, a German Shepherd, disappeared from Mahlubini locality in Sulenkama at about 7pm on Sunday. Constable Songezile Katikati, Olive’s handler, said they had been together since 2012. The two received the “Best Rescue Dog” three years in a row until 2016. “Olive is my best friend and companion. He is humble and he cannot harm anyone as he is trained in rescuing drowned people, seeking missing people and seeking evidence on other crime scenes,” Katikati said. “I plead with anyone who sees him to not harm him but rather keep him and report to the police.” Olive is tan in colour with a black back and face. He was last seen with a black leather belt with a clock around his neck. The area’s acting cluster commander, Brigadier Nomawethu Makonza, urged anyone with information to come forward. “Olive is our member that never disappointed us. When we send Constable Katikati and Olive to rescue someone we relax and rest assured that they’ll bring that missing person back to his/her family,” Makonza said. “It is therefore disturbing news to hear that he is missing. Our members have since been out there searching for him.” Anyone with information is asked to contact Constable Songezile Katikati on 072 731 01556 or 083 530 3295. Information can also be shared on SAPS Crime Stop 08600 10111 or Crime Line 32211. ONE of the Eastern Cape’s specialist Search and Rescue K9 handlers is set to jet off to Nepal to assist with disaster relief operations that are currently under way. Mthatha based Search and Rescue handler Constable Songelizwe Katikati,35, and his dog Olive are already in Gauteng with three other police… April 28, 2015 Kojak to enjoy well-deserved retirement after tumour diagnosis He has dangled 30m below a helicopter, traversed a gold mine and trekked across treacherous mountains – and veteran search-and-rescue dog Kojak would have continued, had it not been for a brain tumour. With 665 search-and-rescue operations, undertaken over seven years, behind… May 25, 2017 A seven-year-old boy who was lost in the Mgwalana mountain range outside Peddie over the weekend was found after a joint search operation by residents and police. According to police, a search and rescue operation was launched at about 8pm on Saturday (16/09/17) after Peddie residents attempted to locate missing… September 17, 2017