The age-old tale of love, revenge, intolerance and injustice pitted against acceptance and intrigue, as told by William Shakespeare, stands the test of time in Helen Flax’s quirky interpretation of The Merchant of Venice currently playing at the Mannville Open-Air Theatre in St George’s Park. Presented by The Port Elizabeth Shakespearean Festival, the production’s eclectic costumes contribute to an air of style and grace, while keeping true to the theme of one of the Bard’s more controversial and celebrated works. The story of love’s triumph over hate and discrimination is driven home by engaging performances by some of Port Elizabeth’s most noted theatre stalwarts including Leslie Speyers, Lesley Barnard and Tim Collier. Against the backdrop of 16th Century Italy comes the story of two friends’ lasting bond, destined lovers, revenge and mercy as the audience is taken on a whirlwind of adventures. From the gold-digging opportunist and adventurer Bassanio’s overtly romantic pursuit of heiress Portia, to the charming love and adoration between Jessica and Lorenzo, the production keeps to the paradoxical incantation which is The Merchant of Venice. The story, in a nutshell, follows the characters on their respective journeys through hardships, discrimination, treachery and racism – all relevant issues in contemporary society. Venetian merchant Antonio agrees to stand surety for a loan his friend Bassanio takes from a Jewish money-lender, Shylock. Shylock is hell-bent on avenging Antonio’s mistreatment of him and demands a pound of flesh in repayment after Antonio’s merchant ships suffer “miscarriages” at sea and he in turn cannot repay the loan. Stellar performances by Clifford Kleb as Shylock, Speyers as the Duke of Venice and Lesley Barnard as Portia, bring the story to life. Gemma Barnard, as Shylock’s daughter Jessica, is well-rounded and well-received, while Collier as Antonio is convincing and enjoyable. Matthew Hamilton adds colour and laughter to the production as the clown employed by Shylock. Particularly noteworthy are the intercuts of merriment in the form of dance sequences, well choreographed by Peter Mann. Portia and Bassanio’s courtship tango is a delightful manifestation of the emotions felt by the characters. Bennie Gerber and Lesley Barnard must be commended for bringing these feelings across in this scene through dance. Catch the production nightly at 7.30pm until next Saturday March 3 (no show on Sunday) at the Mannville. Tickets, at R65 for adults and R40 for students and pupils are at the door from 6.30pm or e-mail: helebel@telkomsa.net Port Elizabeth actress and director Helen Flax is presenting this year’s Shakespeare in the Park as a tribute to the late Themi Venturas, one of the city’s treasured actors who died last year. Venturas, who often trod the boards of Bay stages, moved to KwaZulu-Natal some years ago but regularly… February 18, 2018 Whether there was to be or not to be another Shakespearean production at the Mannville Open Air Theatre in Port Elizabeth’s St George’s Park was no longer in question this week, following the announcement of the first play to be staged there in four years. Having overcome a range of… February 10, 2015 ‘Twelfth Night’ production splendid choice for outdoor venue’s return FORTUNE smiled broadly on the Port Elizabeth theatre community when the revamped Mannville OpenAir Theatre was reopened with a gala premiere of Twelfth Night on Tuesday night. The production was brilliant, the balmy night was windless and even the mozzies kept… February 27, 2015