Sponsors ease the way to world tournament South Africa’s best will compete in this year’s Lifesaving World Championship in Australia, thanks to the combined financial efforts of the federation, its primary sponsor General Tire and the National Lotteries Commission (NLC). It has not always been possible to fund every tour, given that there were seven teams representing South Africa at various international events last year. In some instances, athletes have not been available due to financial constraints. But in a world championship year, every effort is being made to ensure that the sport’s elite will be available, with the sponsors combining to give Team South Africa the best possible chance. Continental Tyre (SA) marketing manager Ian Langlands said: “We are appreciative of the sacrifice made all year round by the athletes in the effort they put in all over South Africa to create safer water environments. “We also understand the importance of Team South Africa’s international standing as one of the powerhouses of the sport. “We have extended our sponsorship to making a contribution to the squad members’ costs in getting to the world championship.” National Lotteries Commission KwaZulu-Natal office representative Sanele Dlamini said: “Lifesaving SA is doing tremendous work in promoting and developing water safety. “We are proud to support Lifesaving SA by funding their highperformance programmes and international participation.” The World Championship will take place in Australia from November 17. New Zealand are the current world champions. Bay lifesaving supporters will be able to see the best the country has to offer when the General Tire National Lifesaving Championships are held at Kings Beach and the Newton Park swimming pool from March 31 to April 7. 800 young surf lifesavers in action at General Tire Lifesaving South Africa Nippers champs at King’s Beach in Port Elizabeth #Nippers #beachlife #MyHeraldLIVE #surflifesaving #lifesaver #cityofpe #Port Elizabeth #NelsonMandelaBay #sharethebay #my city #drone #dronestagram A post shared by My Herald Live (@myheraldlive) on Apr 7, 2017 at 1:10am PDT The… April 7, 2017 Top effort at club lifesaving champs rewarded Summerstrand's Daniel Jones was named in the South African national squad after an outstanding series of performances at the General Tire LifeSavingSA National Interclub Championships in Camps Bay. The action now moves to Port Elizabeth’s Kings Beach, from today until Saturday, which will… April 6, 2017 Young lifesaver shines for SA team with flags win overseas Nelson Mandela Bay’s Runaldo Pedro, 17, hopes to cement his place in the South African surf-lifesaving team after placing first in his speciality beach flags event overseas earlier this month. The young star from Hillside was part of a 12-member… December 7, 2017