Having more than doubled attendance over their inaugural event last year, the second Miss Gay Nelson Mandela Bay pageant was a resounding success when it was staged at The Little Theatre at The Athenaeum in Port Elizabeth at the weekend. The event, which attracted nearly 250 people from both the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) and non-LGBT communities, was won by Cassandra Fox, 25, (stage name), with Katya Mendez and Tazlyn Ross (also stage names), both 27, taking second and first runner-up places respectively. “We had about 100 people at the first event and this year nearly 250 people attended the pageant,” organiser Ava ReeceCole said. “There are expectations of an even bigger event next year. It was fantastic and a great success. “We may even have to look for another venue next year. “There was a good mix in the audience of both members of the LGBT community and the non-LGBT community. “This, besides the attendance numbers, shows that we are meeting objectives for the pageant, which is destigmatising the LGBT community.” Reece-Cole said the event, along with good sponsorship, had attracted dignitaries, such as the Miss Gay SA and Miss Drag title holders, meaning that the event was helping to put the local LGBT community on the national map. “It is really all about destigmatising LGBT, and I believe we are making an impact on that.” Reece-Cole said the pageant would work more closely with movements such as Gay Pride to expand the event going forward. Fox, who is from Salsoneville and employed as a receiving clerk, said she was delighted at her win, having been named Miss Gay Nelson Mandela Bay over eight other contestants. “I was surprised to have won and I am really pleased,” she said. “I only entered because I was asked to and I did not expect to win the competition “I don’t dress in drag often, usually only on weekends.” Fox said she would use her title to uplift and help drag queens and be a role model for them. Winners took home prizes such as computer courses and cash.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Lynn Williams  williamsl@avusa.co.za NELSON Mandela Bay was abuzz with excitement and activity at the weekend as thousands of people flocked to attend the many festivals and events on offer. With concerts, cultural events and Heritage Day celebrations to suit every palate, residents and visitors were spoilt for choice. The events… September 26, 2011 The man behind the Mother City Queer Project is leading a bid for Cape Town to host the 2022 Gay Games, dubbed the world’s largest sporting and cultural event. Ian McMahon, who is behind the annual December party and owns popular Cape Town gay bar Crew, heads the Cape Town… July 5, 2016 NELSON Mandela Bay Queen of Pride, Vinny Langford, has chosen to be true to himself and be the transgender “Vicky” he believes he was meant to be. The 24-year-old, who now goes by the name of Vicky, said he always knew he was different from other boys in his neighbourhood… April 27, 2015