Three North West police officers travelling to Ngcobo to join the task team investigating last week’s execution-style attack on police died in a car crash on Tuesday morning (27/02/18). Police spokesman Captain Khaya Tonjeni said the accident occurred shortly after midnight. “Three SAPS members attached to the North West Tracing Team were driving from Mthatha to Ngcobo to join the Task Team investigating the Ngcobo SAPS attack when their vehicle collided with a stray horse,” Tonjeni said. “The accident happened a few kilometres outside Ngcobo after 12am. Three members are confirmed to have died on the scene. One member was critically injured and taken to Mthatha hospital for medical attention.” However, North West police spokesperson Brigadier Sabata Mokgwabone refuted Tonjeni’s statement. “Contrary to earlier reports, the members were neither in the Eastern Cape to attend a memorial service nor as part of a team assigned to investigate the incident that occurred in Engcobo last week,” Mokgwabone said. “They [the police officers] departed from Potchefstroom to Mthatha, Eastern Cape in the afternoon on Monday, 26 February 2018 to trace a suspect on two cases of murder, one of rape and another one of Assault with intent to do Grievous Bodily Harm (GBH) that were reported in the province between 2008 and 2011.” A case docket of culpable homicide has been opened. The accident comes as preparations are under way for a funeral on Tuesday for those killed in the attack. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">&#65279;</span> Five police officers and a civilian – an off-duty soldier – were killed when a gang attacked the police station in Ngcobo.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. The net is closing in on suspects involved in Wednesday’s mass killing of police officers at the Ngcobo police station, with the police saying they are following strong leads. The national team tasked with tracking down the Ngcobo police station killers brought several men in for questioning today after they allegedly… February 22, 2018 The five policemen killed in an execution style attack on a police station in Ngcobo in the Eastern Cape have been identified. Police on Thursday released pictures of the five officers, some of them in their police uniform. Warrant officer Zikho Mbini, 45; Constable Sibongiseni Sandlana, 32; Constable Nkosiphendule Ponco,… February 22, 2018 The slaughter of five police officers and a retired soldier in Ngcobo yesterday morning was the second attack on the police station in less than a year. Police believe the gang that carried out yesterday’s deadly attack could be the same one that struck in March last year. But unlike… February 22, 2018