Chippa United’s reserve team finished their Multichoice Diski Challenge campaign on a positive note when they played to a 2-2 draw against Orlando Pirates at the Wolfson Stadium in Port Elizabeth on Sunday. The Chilli Boys have not had the best season and they were looking to end the season on a high after suffering a number of defeats. They wanted to finish strongly against Pirates with an emphatic victory but it was not to be, as Buccaneers equalised with a penalty in stoppage time to break the hearts of Chippa United. They had one of their best performances against Pirates and will be looking to build on the momentum through next season. The Port Elizabeth side have only lost one match at home this season and would regard the draw a positive result for them. “This was by far the best performance my players had against a brilliant team like Pirates,” Chippa United reserve team coach Glen Minnie said. “We were really hoping for a win against them and it was unfortunate that they scored in the dying minutes of the game. I liked that we displayed our competitive side and showed Pirates what we are really made of. “It was a good result for us at home and we will go back to the drawing board to return an even better unit next season.” Malesela dancing for joy over goals against Bucs CHIPPA United coach Dan “Dance” Malesela says entertaining the team’s supporters is what he fancies and he is thrilled his charges displayed their attacking skills in beating Orlando Pirates on Wednesday night. Malesela says providing an exciting brand of soccer is the… May 13, 2016 CHIPPA United captain James Okwuosa says his team need a fresh approach and they will not be banking on previous victories over Orlando Pirates when they play the Soweto giants at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tonight (kickoff 7.30pm). In the five league games that Chippa and Pirates have played since… May 11, 2016 THE celebrations are over for Chippa United and it was back to business yesterday with a Telkom Knockout Cup Last 16 clash away to defending champions Platinum Stars looming at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium on Saturday. The Chilli boys caused the biggest PSL upset of the season so far by… September 30, 2014