  “South Africa must come first in everything that we all do”. These were the words of newly-elected president Cyril Ramaphosa in response well wishes and advice by leaders of political parties after his election as head of state on Thursday. Ramaphosa addressed the National Assembly for the first time as president‚ first thanking members for electing him. “I truly feel humbled given this privilege to serve our people‚” he said. Ramaphosa told the opposition that he would want to work with all political parties and will begin a series of engagements with them. “I will come to this house on a regular basis to exercise accountability‚” he said. Ramaphosa said opposition leaders spoke about unity‚ patriotism and working together – things that resonate with what he wants to do. Ramaphosa responded to all the words of opposition leaders‚ reassuring them that he will put the country first. “I will try very hard not to disappoint the people of South Africa‚” he said. In response to DA leader Mmusi Maimane’s statement that he would see Ramaphosa at the ballot box‚ Ramaphosa said he should leave elections aside for now. “Let’s deal with the current moment. Rather than grandstanding‚” he said. ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa was elected President of South Africa unopposed in the National Assembly on Thursday afternoon (15/02/18). Ramaphosa's candidacy was nominated by ANC backbencher Patrick Maesela and seconded by his colleague‚ Joan Fubbs. None of the opposition parties nominated a presidential candidate. Ramaphosa was congratulated by Chief Justice… February 15, 2018 Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has struck a deal with opposition parties that disciplinary proceedings against the EFF will be held in abeyance in return for assurances that they will respect parliamentary rules. "Are we going to put these things that happened into abeyance? Yes, because we are going to find… November 18, 2014 But Ramaphosa reluctant to confirm he will stand until officially nominated The leadership battle for the ANC’s presidency has begun, with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa unofficially kicking off his bid to lead the party after its December elective conference yesterday. Sharing the stage with him was, among others, former deputy… April 24, 2017