Four mining-affected communities represented by Lawyers for Human Rights will be in the Pretoria High Court on Monday to challenge the Mining Charter published by Minister of Mineral Resources Mosebenzi Zwane in June last year. The communities of Sefikile‚ Lesethleng‚ Babina Phuthi Ba Ga-Makola and Kgatlu‚ located in the Northwest and Limpopo provinces‚ each host mining operations on their land‚ and together comprise thousands of affected individuals. The communities want the 2017 Mining Charter set aside aside on the basis that it is incapable of fulfilling its purpose as required by the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act 28 of 2002 (MPRDA). The communities also want the court to order the minister and his department to begin a fresh‚ proper consultative process to develop and implement a new mining charter that reflects the rights and interests of mining-affected communities. “A new mining charter is essential‚ as the current circumstances of mining affected communities reflect that previous versions failed to deliver on the promises of the MPRDA with respect to community upliftment and access to the benefits of mining”‚ said Michael Clements‚ head of the Environmental Rights Programme at Lawyers for Human Rights. “The process of drafting a new mining charter must reflect the direct interests of mining affected communities in the charter as a real mechanism for transformation of the industry”. Mining community federations Mining Affected Communities United in Action‚ Women Affected by Mining United in Action‚ and the Mining and Environmental Justice Community Network of South Africa‚ as well as the Chamber of Mines‚ have also opposed the minister in this matter. For the mining sector to progress‚ it has to go back and redo things that were done incorrectly before, DA leader Mmusi Maimane said. “The reason South Africa is not the world’s mining capital is entirely our own doing,” he said. “We chose to shut the door on new mining… October 5, 2017 Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane says it’s a foregone conclusion who the next president of the ANC will be. “We already know who will be president … It’s a done deal. We are not stressing. The policies won’t change. In January there will new leadership and policies will remain the… October 4, 2017 Mining magnate Bridgette Radebe has asked President Jacob Zuma not to sign the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act Amendment Bill into law, she said on Thursday (16/10/2014). Radebe told the Cape Town Press Club the SA Mining Development Association (Samda), of which she is president, made the submission last… October 16, 2014