Chippa United will be looking to redeem themselves when they take on Baroka FC in what should be a thrilling Absa Premiership soccer encounter at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane at 3.30pm today. The Chilli Boys suffered a horrific 3-1 loss to Bakgaga at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in the first round of the season, which raised a lot of questions around the team’s defence. They have since been able to find the back of the net and will be looking to come at Baroka with guns blazing. The Chilli Boys are in desperate need of three points from a win that will take them higher on the standings. “Preparations have been going very well for us in the buildup for this game,” Chippa coach Teboho Moloi said. “The mood is always exciting in the camp because we understand the position that we find ourselves in at this point in the season. “It is very important that we go out there and perform to our best, and make the Eastern Cape people and spiritual owners [fans] very proud and happy,” he said. “Everybody wants to see us move away from the bottom and this is pressure on us to perform. “We must now start collecting points to secure a good standing in the log.” The team had devised a special tactic for Baroka and they would not be caught napping when attacking them, Moloi said. “We know the way Baroka play and we noticed that they are an ultra-defensive team. “Basically they are very unpredictable. “They have two lineups that they can play against us and this tells you that they are strategising very well. “But the most important thing is for us to go there and do what we do best,” Moloi said. “I always tell the players that with away games to employ a smash and grab attitude. “We just need to improve on the mistakes we made against Maritzburg United and make sure that we return home with three points,” he said. “We cannot forget that Baroka is the only team that came here [Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium] and scored three goals against us in the first half. “So we will be playing against a team that is very cautious. “They waited for us to launch an attack and caught us each time on the break. “So they might employ the same tactic whereby they will just sit back and let us come at them, knowing that we are a bit vulnerable at the back. “But we have been working on that after the 3- all draw with Platinum Starts and we have charged up. “I am confident that players will go out on the field and produce the results that are expected of them on the day.” Chippa United will be without Abel Mabaso, who has flu, and Mxolisi Macuphu, who injured his knee against Phiva Young Stars last week. For the team to achieve their mandate in the Premier Soccer League this season, they need to start winning games, says Chippa United captain James Okwuosa. The Port Elizabeth side play Soweto giants Kaizer Chiefs in a league fixture at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tomorrow (6pm). The Chilli Boys… December 2, 2016 It wasn’t pretty, but caretaker coach Moloi happy with draw Chippa United caretaker coach Teboho Moloi managed a smash-and-grab point in his first assignment after his team played to a goalless PSL draw away to Platinum Stars, at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium on Saturday evening. Moloi had hoped to kickstart… September 18, 2017 Chilli Boys ready to ‘fight to death’ to stay in Premier League Chippa United veteran Andile Mbenyane believes an early goal will be key to a much-needed victory against SuperSport United in their Premier Soccer League fixture at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium tonight (7.30pm). These are desperate times for… May 17, 2017