Readers of The Herald can win R17 000 of jewellery with Jenni Gault International, who is launching a diamond and platinum range to her crystal and stainless steel jewellery collection. The Port Elizabeth designer is featuring African diamonds and platinum in her new range, in addition to her Swarovski crystal and stainless steel jewellery collection. Sourced, designed and manufactured in South Africa – Gault will be releasing her new Savannah range in crystals concurrently with the Royal Savannah range in diamonds.
The Royal Savannah diamonds are conflict-free and set in platinum, consisting of pendants, studs, a tennis bracelet and a selection of rings. The Savannah range is a mirror image of the collection, re-created in crystal and stainless steel. Gault identified a need for “travel jewellery” where modern women, reluctant to wear their more valuable items, choose rather to leave them at home in the safe. However, she dislikes the idea that jewellery is not worn and enjoyed, and therefore, her Royal Savannah clients will be provided with reproduction rings in crystal, free of charge, so they can still enjoy wearing the designs with confidence, wherever they are. To celebrate Valentine’s Day and the launch of her Savannah range in PE, Gault is offering readers the chance to win a design from her Swarovski crystal Savannah range. The Herald readers can win R17000 worth of jewellery as follows: Entries close at noon on Friday, February 9 and a representative of the jewellery designer’s studio will contact the lucky winners.  SWAROVSKI crystal jewellery designer Jenni Gault is jetting off to Europe for Paris Fashion Week later this month but, before she goes, the crystal queen is treating La Femme readers to another 21 prizes of her jewellery. The French fashion feast takes place from September 23 to October 1, and… September 3, 2014 JENNI Gault International is today offering readers of The Herald the chance to win jewellery for Christmas with a total retail value of R13 700. The award-winning Swarovski crystal jewellery designer returned to her home in Nelson Mandela Bay briefly this month before jetting off again. “This year has been… December 18, 2015 Celebrate St Valentine’s Day with a Japanese twist this weekend and stand a chance to win crystal jewellery valued at more than R20 000 from Jenni Gault International. he International Jewellery Tokyo Exhibition invited the celebrated Port Elizabeth designer to show her new range there last week and she has… February 11, 2015