David Mabuza has been named the new deputy president of South Africa as President Cyril Ramaphosa announced changes to his national executive on Monday night. “These changes are intended to insure that national government is better equipped to continue implementing the mandate of this administration and specifically the tasks identified in the state of the nation address,” Ramaphosa said. Ramaphosa said they had begun the review of the number of ministries and departments, and would maintain the existing departments until the review is completed. Ramaphosa made a host of changes to his Cabinet, including the appointment of Nhlanhla Nene as the new finance minister once he is sworn in in Parliament on Tuesday. Other changes include: – Communications: Ms Nomvula Mokonyane – Energy: Mr Jeff Radebe – Higher Education and Training: Ms Naledi Pandor – Home Affairs: Mr Malusi Gigaba – Human Settlements: Ms Nomaindia Mfeketo – International Relations and Cooperation: Ms Lindiwe Sisulu – Mineral Resources: Mr Gwede Mantashe – Police: Mr Bheki Cele – Public Enterprises: Mr Pravin Gordhan – Public Service and Administration: Ms Ayanda Dlodlo – Public Works: Mr Thulas Nxesi – Rural Development and Land Reform: Ms Maite Nkoana-Mashabane – Science and Technology: Ms Nkhensani Kubayi-Ngubane – Social Development: Ms Susan Shabangu – Sport and Recreation: Ms Tokozile Xasa – State Security: Ms Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba – The Presidency: Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation: Dr Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma – The Presidency: Women: Ms Bathabile Dlamini – Tourism: Mr Derek Hanekom – Transport: Dr Blade Nzimande – Water and Sanitation: Mr Gugile Nkwinti –  Dr Zweli Mkhize as Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs – Mr Nhlanhla Nene as Minister of Finance – Ms Reginah Mhaule as Deputy Minister of International Relations and Cooperation  ANC Deputy President David "DD" Mabuza is due to be sworn-in as one of the party's new MPs on Tuesday. This is according to well-placed officials in Parliament who have told TimesLIVE about the matter on condition of anonymity because they are not authorised to speak publicly on the issue.… February 26, 2018 Economic recovery, job creation vital, bloated cabinet to be cut President Cyril Ramaphosa placed the recovery of the battered economy at the centre of his maiden state of the nation address last night, while also promising to cut a bloated cabinet and reduce government departments. Delivering his first Sona to… February 17, 2018 A colleague joked recently that journalists covering the ANC’s national conference next week would go on to spend Christmas still reporting from the Pretoria High Court with a grumpy judge presiding over the umpteenth urgent application brought by one party faction against another. An exaggeration of course, but one that… December 6, 2017