There are dozens, if not hundreds, of recipes for a chicken cooked on top of an open can of beer What makes this recipe so good is the combination of spices, which give it a Caribbean jerk chicken flavour. This recipe for beer-can chicken serves six. For the marinade: 1 tbsp allspice berries 1 tbsp black peppercorns ½ tsp ground cinnamon ½ nutmeg, freshly grated ¼ bunch of thyme, leaves picked 5 spring onions, roughly chopped 3 garlic cloves, roughly chopped 1 scotch bonnet chilli, seeded and roughly chopped 1 tbsp dark brown sugar 2 tbsp dark soy sauce Juice of 1 lime To assemble: 1 x 1.8 kg/4lb whole chicken Sea salt 1 x large can of beer Olive oil In a pestle and mortar, pound the allspice and the peppercorns to a powder, then add to a food processor along with the cinnamon, nutmeg, thyme, spring onions, garlic and chilli. Blend to a paste, then stir in the sugar, soy sauce and lime juice. Rub the mixture all over the chicken, then cover and set aside to marinate for at least four hours, or overnight. Preheat the kettle braai barbecue (ideally one with a lid) so that it is medium hot, or heat your oven to 180°C or Gas 4. Drink half the can of beer (you only want it half full) then carefully place the chicken on to the beer can so the chicken is sitting upright with the can in the cavity. Season the chicken well with salt and rub the skin with oil. Place the chicken on the barbecue (or in the oven on a baking tray) with the can standing up and wrap the top half (the breast) in foil so that it can steam. Cover with a lid. Leave to cook for approximately one hour (depending on size of chicken), removing the foil after 30 minutes. Aim to end up with a chicken that is slightly blackened, and with juices running clear. Leave to rest on top of the can for 10 minutes before serving. Be careful of the very hot beer can! – The Telegraph THIS rich spiced lamb stew with chickpeas and squash, and a chilli-sauce kick, is comfort food for cooler spring evenings. It serves six to eight. INGREDIENTS: 4 tablespoons olive oil 1kg cubed braising lamb 1 large onion, roughly chopped 3 garlic cloves, finely chopped ¼ tsp ground cinnamon ¼ tsp… November 10, 2014 Louise Parker shares a few recipes from her book The Louise Parker Method: Lean for Life and Lean for Life: The Cookbook, using healthy foods which fill. The recent news that sirloin steak, chicken, mackerel and avocados could help dieters lose weight because they trigger a reaction in the brain… February 10, 2018 IN NEED of inspiration to make that party sizzle? Diana Henry shares her recipe for a sensational stress-free supper. Serves 6 to 8 as a side dish or part of a spread. INGREDIENTS: 200g couscous 300ml hot chicken or vegetable stock, or boiling water 4 tbsp olive oil 1 large… August 20, 2015