A Nelson Mandela University art student has explored discrimination against people with albinism through her photography and will be showing this work at the Athenaeum from tomorrow. MTech photography graduate student Robyn Larkin will present her exhibition Skin Deep as part of the university’s Visual Arts Department masters graduate shows, with three other students opening their joint exhibition on Friday at the NMU Art Gallery. Larkin turned her lens on albinism as she said many PWA (persons with albinism) in Southern Africa were isolated daily, facing not only a lack of knowledge and understanding but also deep superstition. “Often ostracised for their physical differences, PWA are subjected to harsh mistruths which often result in the discrimination and mutilation of this minority group,” Larkin said. “The topic of stigmatism towards PWA is vast and extremely complex.” She hopes to give the exhibition audience the chance to look into the everyday lives of the victims of this violence and stigma, “while also allowing the viewer to remove themselves from their space of comfort, stepping into the space created to allow for quiet reflection on the experiences of this minority group”. She said the works were her personal interpretations of case study encounters, and highlighted snippets of “a much larger story”. Skin Deep opens tomorrow at 6 for 6.30pm at the Athenaeum in Athol Fugard (formerly Belmont) Terrace, and contains two- and three-dimensional work. The university’s Prof Rose Boswell will give the opening address and Albinism Society of SA Eastern Cape secretary Mandisa Makunga will also say a few words. The exhibition will remain open until February 27 and the Athenaeum gallery times are 8.30 to 4pm from Monday to Friday. Further information from Asanda Mlata, (041) 585-1041. The other three masters graduates will present their work at the NMU Art Gallery in Bird Street later this week, with their joint exhibition opening on Friday, February 9 at 6 for 6.30pm. It will contain sculptural ceramics by Michelle Luyt, digital prints and documentary videos by Nadia van der Walt and sculpture works by Sarah Walmsley. Further information on the group exhibition from Jonathan van der Walt, (041) 504-3293. The Nelson Mandela University’s Bird Street Gallery in Central is kicking off the new year with a masters graduate exhibition. Three students will be displaying their research, with the exhibition set to open on Friday, February 9 at 6 for 6.30pm. The students involved are Michelle Luyt (ceramics), Sarah Walmsley… February 3, 2018 The Alliance Française in Port Elizabeth is opening an exhibition tomorrow called Trilogy, featuring practicing artists Anna Mari Burger, Jenny Maltby and Les Bird. All three artists are also art teachers: Burger teaches at Cape Recife High School, Maltby teaches art at St George’s Preparatory school, while Bird has been… October 6, 2017 There are two art exhibitions closing today and a new one opening tomorrow night in Port Elizabeth, and a further two openings next week. ARTEC ArtEC is opening its “Off the Wall” exhibition at 6pm on Friday, August 19. The exhibition, which will run until September 3, offers artists space… August 18, 2016