Conservationists paid tribute to wildlife-trade researcher and geographer Esmond Bradley Martin yesterday‚ following his death at his home in Nairobi‚ Kenya. Known for his investigations undercover into the illegal trade in rhino horn and ivory, the BBC has reported that the US citizen‚ 75‚ was found stabbed to death on Sunday. Save the Elephants said yesterday it was deeply shocked and saddened at his death. “One of the world’s leading ivory trade experts‚ [Esmond’s surveys] shone a powerful spotlight on the wildlife markets around the world that are sucking ivory‚ rhino horn and countless other African species into their maw. “By charting the scale of these markets and tracking fluctuations with rigour and consistency‚ he provided a solid foundation for action to close them down. “Conservation has lost an important figure‚ elephants have lost a great champion and the shock of Esmond’s death will be felt around the world. Julian Rademeyer‚ author of the book Killing for Profit: Exposing the Illegal Rhino Horn Trade‚ called Martin a legend in conservation. “Esmond spent much of his life fearlessly and doggedly investigating the illegal ivory and rhino horn trades,” Rademeyer said. “He was an inspiration and someone always willing to share information‚ advice and encouragement.” – TimesLIVE Britian's Prince William warned yesterday that vulnerable species are being killed at a horrifying rate, as he addressed a wildlife conference in Vietnam – a country criticised for not curbing the illicit animal product trade. With its growing class of wealthy elites, Vietnam has become a main market for rhino… November 18, 2016 Over a ton of elephant ivory seized from poachers in Uganda and worth over a million dollars has itself been stolen from government strongrooms, reports said Monday (17/11/2014). President Yoweri Museveni has ordered investigation into the ivory stolen from the Uganda Wildlife Authority (UWA) armoury, with staff feared to be… November 17, 2014 Kenya burns biggest-ever stockpile worth R2.1bn KENYAN President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday set light to 105 tons of ivory, the biggest-ever stockpile burn, in a bid to send a message to poachers and ivory traders. Kenyatta lit 11 stacked pyres in Nairobi National Park containing the tusks of more than 8… May 2, 2016