Investigators homed in on Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille and mayoral committee member for transport Brett Herron yesterday. Bowman Gilfillan attorneys requested access to De Lille and Herron’s computers and e-mails. The firm has been appointed by the council to investigate allegations of misconduct involving suspended Cape Town transport commissioner Melissa Whitehead. The Whitehead inquiry is looking into allegations of misspent millions‚ tender irregularities and theft which could amount to millions of rands. De Lille said: “As part of the council resolution on January 5 to appoint an independent investigator to probe various allegations related to the electric bus tender‚ two staff members in my office [and I] voluntarily handed over our computers today as part of the ongoing investigation. “I welcome the investigation and remain committed to cooperating fully with the process. “The computers handed to Bowman Gilfillan earlier today were returned to my office this afternoon.” Herron said that in the interests of a thorough investigation into Whitehead‚ “I fully support this review of the computer data in my office and to that end I am cooperating fully”. Insisting that his offices were not raided, he said: “It was a polite request to allow Bowman Gilfillan auditors access to download data they consider may be relevant to their investigation. “Ms Whitehead and I exchanged numerous e-mail messages. I have nothing to hide from any investigation.” Patricia de Lille is refusing to go down without a fight as she faces twin threats to her six-and-a-half-year reign as mayor of Cape Town. The city council decided on Friday that De Lille should be formally investigated for allegedly covering up wrongdoing by a senior council official. This followed… January 7, 2018 Cape Town’s city manager and transport commissioner are to face disciplinary action‚ while mayor Patricia de Lille faces a fresh probe of a cover-up she allegedly ordered. Achmat Ebrahim and Melissa Whitehead have been given seven days to provide reasons why they should not be suspended. Action against the two… January 6, 2018 The DA inquiry into divisions in the party’s ruling caucus in Cape Town heard a string of accusations against mayor Patricia de Lille ranging from nepotism and intimidation to defeating the ends of justice. The investigation‚ launched in late September under the chairmanship of parliamentary chief whip John Steenhuisen‚ was… January 12, 2018