Ruling forces ABYC to strike sails in protracted eviction battle After more than 60 years as a prominent landmark in the Port Elizabeth harbour, the Algoa Bay Yacht Club has finally been given the boot. Following a mammoth court battle stemming from unpaid rent, the Port Elizabeth High Court yesterday upheld the notice of eviction issued by Transnet, spelling the end of an era. The court dismissed an urgent application brought by the yacht club last week to prevent Transnet from executing an eviction notice issued earlier this month. Club commodore and chairman Alan Straton said it was devastating news for him and many of the club’s members who had put their heart and soul into the club. “It will be a huge wrench to hand over the club buildings and land reclaimed that was paid for by member subscriptions over 60 years,” he said. The four-year legal battle between the two parties stemmed from a 2014 eviction notice after Transnet claimed the yacht club owed it nearly R2-million in overdue rent. Transnet claimed then that the amount the club had been paying was not market-related. It wanted the club to fork out more than R49 000 a month for rent – which it had been paying since. The rent had previously leapt from about R22 000 to R37 000 in 2009. An order issued by the high court in August gave the yacht club until today to vacate the premises, but according to the club’s legal representative, Advocate Albert Beyleveld SC, a draft order issued soon after stated that the club could continue occupying the premises on a month-to-month basis until a suitable tenant was found. A subsequent court order did not include this clause. In September, Transnet advertised for a suitable supplier to tender for the establishment of a restaurant and bar at the premises. To date, Transnet has not announced the awarding of the tender. During court proceedings last week, Transnet’s legal representative, Lisa Ntsepe, claimed that the application lacked urgency, that the August 23 draft order was not a valid court order, and that facts presented regarding a settlement agreement between the parties were disputable. Judge Nomathamsanqa Beshe dismissed the application, with costs, based on these three main points. Transnet spokeswoman Margorie Makama said the parastatal was satisfied with the ruling. “We are pleased that the proceedings in the high court have been finalised,” she said. “The procurement process to find a new tenant is at an advanced stage and an announcement on the outcome will be made shortly.” Makama said Transnet would remain open to hosting sailing events on terms and conditions mutually beneficial to the port and the yachting community. “We further reiterate that yachting and leisure boating are very much part of the TNPA’s Smart Peoples Port strategy,” she said.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Staff and members of the beleaguered Algoa Bay Yacht Club will know their fate on Friday after the club went to court in an effort to prevent it from being booted out of the harbour. Legal teams for both the club and Transnet butted heads in the Port Elizabeth High… February 24, 2018 Yacht club restaurant given until month-end to pack up and leave After a protracted legal battle, the Algoa Bay Yacht Club’s restaurant and bar has been served with an eviction notice – but the battle for the prime tourism hotspot is far from over, according to the club. Yacht club… February 19, 2018 While the controversial eviction of the Algoa Bay Yacht Club from its prominent spot in the Port of Port Elizabeth is still being considered by the national Ports Regulator, Transnet has put out a tender notice for the premises – calling for applicants to establish a restaurant and bar on… September 9, 2017