Community members have gathered outside the Engcobo Magistrate’s Court to oppose the bail of the 12 suspects expected to appear in court today. The suspects are facing charges of murder, attempted murder and possession of illegal weapons and ammunition. Police spokesman Captain Khanya Tonjeni said the memorial service is scheduled to be held  at the Engcobo Methodist Church on Tuesday. Various leaders and a high-level government delegation is expected to attend. “Engcobo police station is open to the public and continues to offer its services to the people,” Tonjeni said. Warnings on Ngcobo cult went unheeded   Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  A bloody exchange of gunfire in a churchyard on Friday evening left seven suspected Engcobo cop-killers dead. The Hawks cornered the gang at their hideout in a church in Nyanga village near Engcobo on Friday night. Seven suspected gang members were killed during the shootout‚ 10 were arrested and others… February 24, 2018 The death toll in Wednesday morning’s execution-style attack on an Eastern Cape police station has risen to seven. Expressing his condolences, Premier Phumulo Masualle confirmed that a sixth police officer had died in hospital. Earlier, police said that three police officers had died in the execution-style attack on the police… February 21, 2018 Eastern Cape police stations are on high alert following an attack at the police station in Ngcobo on Wednesday morning (21/02/18). A gang of robbers allegedly attacked the station in the small town situated between Mthatha and Queenstown during the early hours of the morning. Provincial police spokesman Captain Khaya Tonjeni… February 21, 2018