In a brave battle to save an endangered green turtle from a watery grave, Bayworld staff used a combination of caring, experience and innovation to nurse the animal back to health. The turtle, found on the beach at Boknes, recuperated at Bayworld wearing a “Bentley belt” fashioned from a piece of foam and wetsuit material, until she was healthy enough for release. Bentley, as she is called, stranded on Woody Cape beach in September. Luckily, Boknes cyclist St Elmo Wilken came across her and carried her home. The turtle was then ferried to Cannon Rocks stranding network member Verona Veltman, who drove her through to Bayworld. Aquarium curator Dylan Bailey said it had quickly become evident that the animal was suffering from a gas bubble under its shell. Bayworld’s Ruth Wright said after three months of intensive rehabilitation, Bayworld vet Dr. Andrew Mackay recently gave Bentley the all-clear, thumbs up to be released. Bentley and two other turtles, Luna and Nakita, were released near St Croix Island in Algoa Bay on Monday (19/02/2018). Watch Bentley’s release here:   Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  How do you save a turtle that can’t swim? You give it a lifebelt, of course. With a combination of caring, experience and innovation, a patch of wetsuit and a stick of close-cell foam, Bayworld’s aquarium team has saved an endangered green turtle from a watery grave. Bentley, as she… November 11, 2017 BAYWORLD celebrated World Turtle Day recently by returning Xena, a critically endangered leatherback turtle, to the ocean after more than 40 days in captivity. The International Union of Conservation of Nature’s Red List of Threatened Species classifies leatherbacks, or Dermochelys coriacea, as critically endangered – meaning they face a high… May 27, 2016 Sea creature transported to PE after social media appeal Concern for an ailing sea turtle – which has been nicknamed Toughey – has seen an outpouring of assistance from across the Eastern Cape to help restore its health. The loggerhead sea turtle – an endangered species – may not be… January 12, 2017