Government has set aside R6-billion to tackle the drought situation in the Western Cape‚ the Eastern Cape and the Northern Cape. In his budget speech on Wednesday‚ Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba said the money would be used to augment water infrastructure in the three provinces. Particular focus was in Cape Town because government was worried about potential job losses‚ especially in the agricultural sector. Gigaba said short-term disaster relief for the three provinces would also amount to R473-million in the 2018/2019 financial year owing to the devastating drought. “Government is concerned by potential job losses in vulnerable farming communities as a result of the drought. We are therefore exploring the option of partially mitigating losses by temporarily increasing intake in the working for water programme‚” he said. “National government will continue to work with municipalities to respond effectively to the water crisis.” Gigaba urged South Africans to conserve water‚ saying it was a water scarce country with some of the highest per capita daily consumption of water in the world. – TimesLIVE The Eastern Cape will officially be declared a national disaster area by March 15. The declaration will see different national and provincial government departments working together to ensure farmers receive the necessary relief while groundwater exploration continues for water to be used by residents. The scheduled declaration by Cooperative Governance… February 19, 2018 Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has revealed that the gross national debt will shoot up to R3.4-trillion or 60% of GDP by 2020 as government is forced to borrow more to fund its policy plans. Presenting his Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement in parliament on Wednesday‚ Gigaba painted a grim picture of… October 25, 2017 R7bn requested for Bay alone as East Cape set to be declared disaster area The Eastern Cape government, in a desperate bid to end the province’s water crisis, has requested R7.7-billion from the national government for drought intervention – with the bulk of the money earmarked for Nelson Mandela Bay.… February 9, 2018