The ANC’s national executive committee (NEC) met on Monday in the scorching Centurion heat to finalise President Jacob Zuma’s fate as state president. ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said on Sunday in Cape Town that the meeting would “discuss and finalise this matter”. It was set to begin at 2pm. However‚ a formal briefing on the outcomes of the meeting was not expected on Monday. Journalists were nonetheless camped out at the Saint George Hotel in Irene‚ Centurion‚ where NEC members drove in and out of the conference venue in their luxury vehicles. Zuma and the leadership of the ANC have held discussions about his tenure as state president‚ following an earlier decision by the NEC that he should step down. The NEC initially referred it to the top officials to deal with‚ but Zuma then refused to step down. This resulted in further discussions‚ the unprecedented postponement of the state of the nation address and a cancelled special NEC meeting. Ramaphosa’s announcement in Cape Town on Sunday drew a line in the sand. “We know you want this matter to be finalised. We know you want closure on this matter. We will finalise this matter keeping our eyes on what is in the interests of all our people‚” Ramaphosa told the country. – BusinessLIVE ANC to finalise matter at meeting – Ramaphosa ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa yesterday gave the clearest indication yet that Jacob Zuma’s future as head of state could be resolved today. The uncertainty around President Zuma’s fate has left the country in limbo with opposition parties, alliance partners and some in… February 12, 2018 The ANC national executive committee resolved that President Jacob Zuma should not step down but that the party rather focus on uniting the movement. Secretary general Gwede Mantashe said there were "robust‚ difficult and candid" discussion about Zuma's leadership. The ANC felt it was "more urgent to direct energy at… November 29, 2016 Ramaphosa tells ANC MPs he has no authority to offer such terms ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa told party MPs yesterday that Jacob Zuma’s legal woes would not form part of the transition talks he was having with the president. This effectively rules out an offer of immunity from prosecution. Zuma… February 9, 2018