 Olivia Makete struggled to walk when she woke up on Tuesday‚ still in agony after being kicked by ANC members “defending” Luthuli House. The 52-year-old woman – who was photographed being hit off the back of a bakkie and kicked to the ground after an attack at the hands of ANC members on Monday – was sitting on the river bank at Orange Farm Extension 10 in Johannesburg‚ helping her neighbour wash a carpet when TimesLIVE tracked her down. It was about midday and a throng of journalists finally got to meet the woman whose assault was captured by Sunday Times photographer Alon Skuy. The brutal images forced the ANC to immediately suspend branch secretary Thabang Setona‚ who ended up spending the night behind bars at Johannesburg Central police station. He was one of the people dressed in ANC regalia who attacked Makete and other residents as they drove past Luthuli House on the back of an open bakkie. Makete said she was not at Luthuli House to protest in support of President Jacob Zuma. “We were going to handover a memorandum about service delivery. We need water. We need houses. We need electricity at Orange Farm Extension 10. I have been living here since October last year. “We left Orange Farm in the van and when we got to town the car took a wrong turn. The road was closed but the police then opened it for us to go through. When we stopped at a traffic light‚ just opposite Luthuli House‚ a group of ANC people started assaulting us. “I fell on my tummy. I do not know the person who kicked me. He kicked on my bum and also on my ribs. In the morning I could not walk‚” she said.  Makete lives with her husband in a small shack. Her entire informal settlement does not have water‚ electricity‚ sanitation or even roads. It is situated along Golden Highway‚ not far from the Orange Farm taxi rank. She and her husband do not work and survive on their two children’s social grants. They have two older children‚ aged 26 and 30. Members of Black First Land First (BLF) promised to take her to a doctor so that she could fill in the necessary paperwork in order to open an assault case. According to tweet by an SABC reporter‚ she went to the Orange Farm police station on Tuesday to open the case. The Joburg ANC region has condemned an assault on a woman by a secretary of one of its branches during a protest outside Luthuli House in the inner city. “The African National Congress Greater Johannesburg Region has noted with dismay and utter disgust the images and videos circulating of Thabiso… February 5, 2018 President Jacob Zuma’s political future rests in the hands of parliament after he turned down a request from the ANC leadership to step down voluntarily. Yesterday, the ANC’s national working committee met late into the night to discuss Zuma’s refusal and map a way forward. The party confirmed shortly after… February 6, 2018 Khulekani Magubane POLICE launched stun grenades and fired rubber bullets on Wednesday (12/02/2014) at African National Congress (ANC) supporters who confronted Democratic Alliance (DA) supporters during the opposition party’s “march for real jobs” in central Johannesburg. Police stopped the DA march‚ saying it would be too dangerous. About 100 officers… February 12, 2014