Police, choppers called out after pupil, 12, goes missing A frantic five-hour search for a 12-year-old Woodridge Preparatory School boy who went missing during first break yesterday ended when he was spotted by helicopter walking along the school’s fence near Lily’s Pad Pond – an outdoor excursion area on the school’s premises in the gorge. The boy failed to return to class at about 10.30am, which raised an alarm prompting staff and pupils to conduct a search of the property as well as cover the hiking trails. Headmaster Trevor von Berg said due to the vast size of the campus, an internal search was done first before the police were alerted. “After first break, the teacher whose class he was supposed to be in came to me and said the boy was missing. We then asked his friends when last they’d seen him [which] was at the start of break. “We then sent out staff to different parts of the school like the boarding houses, toilets and library because he is quite a keen reader, this young boy, and is generally around the school. “Straight away as the headmaster you begin to worry because your role is to look after children and if one of them goes missing you try to keep a calm mind in a situation like this, but thank goodness it all worked out all right,” he said. Von Berg said the staff checked all the swimming pools and surrounding dams first and then alerted the campus security to embark on a search down to Lily’s Pad Pond, but found no trace of the boy. “We alerted the boy’s parents immediately and they arrived before midday, as well as the police – who within the hour had searched for the boy and found him walking along the fence making his way back towards the school.” Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said that by early afternoon the school had alerted authorities and requested assistance. The police K9 search and rescue unit, together with Emergency Medical Service (EMS) and two helicopters were sent to assist with the search. “He was found wandering in the direction of Thornhill, several kilometres from the school. A private helicopter searching the area spotted him,” she said. Metro EMS operations manager Ashwell Botha said the child had been located unharmed and in need of medical treatment. In a bid to keep parents apprised of the search, the school posted a picture of the boy to their social media page stating: “Please be aware that we are doing everything we can to locate (him) . . . Please keep him and his family in your prayers.” By 3.15pm, they announced that he had been found. “Please note that (he) has been found!!! He was hiding and is safely back with his class now.” Von Berg said the boy was taken home with his parents, and staff had not had an opportunity to speak with him. Von Berg intends to meet the parents and the boy today to resolve the matter. “I said to [the parents] I didn’t want to speak to him at all [yesterday] because it was not the right time. “He and his parents need to first gather themselves and I will meet with them today and we can find out what caused this and get him to learn you can’t just do things like that,” he said. A search for a 13-year-old boy who went missing from Woodridge Preparatory School is currently under way. For the past four hours teachers and older school children have been searching the immediate area after Ethan Southern went missing at 10am. Police confirmed that they had  been called in to assist… February 5, 2018 MAYHEM erupted at a Port Elizabeth northern areas school, two pupils were stabbed and midyear exams disrupted as a large police contingent was called in to quell fighting between rival gang members yesterday. The violent clashes at David Livingstone High School in Schauderville were triggered minutes before the school bell… June 18, 2014 Bushes set alight – but no sign of girl MASS hysteria broke out in Port Elizabeth’s northern areas yesterday after rumours of a girl being kidnapped in Helenvale spread through the community. A massive search took place with police scouring streets and bushes for a schoolgirl allegedly abducted by a… March 10, 2015