A long-awaited new book by international bestselling author Barbara Kingsolver is due this year with the publication of Unsheltered in October. The US author visited Port Elizabeth three years ago when she gave Bay book lovers an insight into the writer’s world. Her previous 14 works of fiction and non-fiction have been translated into dozens of languages and earned a devoted readership: the author of The Poisonwood Bible won the Orange Prize for The Lacuna and her novel Flight Behaviour was shortlisted for the Women’s Prize for Fiction. Her powerful novels often carry a social message and it sounds as if Unsheltered also treads this path. “We’re living through a scary historical moment when the most basic agreements about who we are as citizens, and how we’ll succeed in the world, are suddenly unraveling,” Kingsolver said. “It isn’t the first time. People are such interesting animals. Unsheltered speaks to these moments, and uses the lens of unraveling the past to ask where we might be headed.” The new novel is set in two different eras, first in the modern-day US, in a fictional town called Vineland where Willa Knox stands braced against the vicissitudes of her shattered life and family – and the crumbling house that contains her. It tracks back in time to 1871 Vineland where Thatcher Greenwood, the new science teacher and an advocate of the work of Charles Darwin, is keen to communicate his ideas to his students. However, those in power in Thatcher’s small town have no desire to hear his teachings. Both Willa and Thatcher resist the prevailing logic and both are asked to pay a high price for their courage. Faber & Faber will publish the novel, said to be “signature Kingsolver: exquisite, brave, funny, political and intimate”, and described as a testament to the power and goodness of the human spirit. BOOK lovers know that fact can be stranger than fiction – especially in a country like South Africa which provides a rich source of themes – and a competition is now calling for short science fiction stories to be submitted. "We have an unbelievable president. Literally. And a bishop who… May 26, 2014 Octayvia Nance ATHENAEUM Building PR Amy Shelver showed La Femme around her Central cottage which she shares with her partner, Christiaan Kritzinger. While being co-owner of Numb City Productions, she is interested in the youth creative collective in the city. When showing La Femme around, she said she couldn't decide… August 28, 2013 A trio of authors will be meeting book lovers this week over lunch at St Francis Links. The Book Lovers Lunch at the Links Club House on Thursday in St Francis Bay, will feature Fiona Snykers, Mia Henry and Lesley Smailes. Snyckers will be discussing her fifth novel Spire, published… September 11, 2017