Eastern Cape police stations are on high alert following an attack at the police station in Ngcobo on Wednesday morning (21/02/18). A gang of robbers allegedly attacked the station in the small town situated between Mthatha and Queenstown during the early hours of the morning. Provincial police spokesman Captain Khaya Tonjeni confirmed that five male members, a Warrant Officer and four Constables were fatally shot while two more male officers were shot and wounded. The two were taken to hospital where they received medical attention and discharged. They are reported to be in a stable condition. Five other female members who were on duty namely; the data capturer and other functional members, are receiving trauma counselling. Police officials are on the scene. This is a developing story.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  The South African Police Service in Uitenhage has issued an urgent warning to the public to be wary of people phoning and offering jobs on behalf of the SAPS. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said it had come to the police’s attention that residents had been receiving calls from people… February 19, 2018 The police VIP protection unit has lifted a temporary freeze on all allowances amid claims earlier this week that its budget had run dry. This comes after a memo was distributed to all provincial offices, and some police stations, earlier this week. By noon yesterday, the police national office had… February 16, 2018 The man accused of the murder of Durban escort Siam Lee laughed in court as he heard he would be moved to the Westville Prison ahead of his application for bail next month. The 29-year-old businessman‚ who cannot be named as he faces charges of rape‚ stood before Regional Court… February 13, 2018