The corruption probe into allies of former president Jacob Zuma has been widened to other countries including India, China and Dubai, Police Minister Fikile Mbalula said. Mbalula made the announcement yesterday, days after an arrest warrant was issued for one of the Gupta brothers. Mbalula told the SABC that Ajay Gupta and four other people who were being sought in connection with the case were all out of the country. While there was no indication that they had fled the country fearing arrest, Mbalula vowed that they would “be followed-up” through Interpol with the possibility of extradition to face trial in South Africa. He said two of the suspects were of Indian descent and one was Chinese. All are thought to be in India, China or Dubai. He refused to name the suspects, except for Ajay Gupta. Media reports suggested that Zuma’s son, Duduzane, a business associate of the Guptas, was also among those being sought, and some speculated that he could be in Dubai.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Ajay Gupta‚ the patriarch of the embattled Gupta family‚ is on the run and surrounded by a team of heavily armed bodyguards. Hawks officials confirmed yesterday afternoon that Gupta was a fugitive from the law and that they had obtained a warrant for his arrest. Ajay’s brother‚ Atul‚ is also… February 16, 2018 Police Minister Fikile Mbalula seems to have landed himself in hot water over his tweets yet again – this time for tweeting pictures of bags of cash that had allegedly been destined to buy votes at the ANC national elective conference this weekend. However‚ national police spokesman Brigadier Vish Naidoo… December 13, 2017 Soldiers are to be sent to gang-ridden areas in the Western Cape and other parts of the country by Christmas‚ says national police minister Fikile Mbalula. “It is going to happen. We are processing it in terms of the operational plan. Thereafter the president will give us the green light.… November 16, 2017