A teenage schoolgirl was ambushed, dragged into the bushes and left for dead while walking to Linkside High School on Wednesday morning (21/02/18). The attack happened less than 1km from the school shortly after 8am – while the girl was running late for class. Detectives are still trying to get more details from the girl after she was rushed to Greencares Hospital after the attack. The girl’s age, name and grade are not being released to protect her identity. Police spokesman Captain Johan Rheeder said the girl was ambushed while walking in Carnoustie Crescent, Linkside She was found semi-conscious and lying on a gravel road near bushes about 800m from the school. “It appears that the girl was walking on the road when she was attacked from behind.  A suspect pulled her into the bushes near a gravel road where she was attacked. “At this stage, we cannot confirm if she was raped as we are awaiting for the rape test kit,” Rheeder said.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Rescuer almost killed as boys in school uniform seize woman in Walmer A HORRIFYING and brazen gang attack in broad daylight in which a young woman narrowly escaped possible rape and murder in Walmer, has led to the arrest of two Port Elizabeth schoolboys. Traumatised victim Nasiphi Milisi, 22 –… August 15, 2015 A teenage schoolgirl who went for a walk on the Summerstrand beachfront to clear her head before an exam was abducted and assaulted by two men who attempted to rape her yesterday. The 15-year-old Pearson High School pupil managed to fight off her two attackers and escape, but was left… September 21, 2017 A man has been arrested in connection with the abduction and attempted rape of a teenage schoolgirl who had gone for a walk on the beachfront to clear her head before an exam. The arrest was made yesterday afternoon when police followed up on leads that a possible suspect could… September 26, 2017