You either love them or hate them and Port Elizabeth musician Anton van der Pool loves his bagpipes so much he is playing them at weddings, funerals and now at a festive Afrikaans concert, Westway Makietie. Van der Pool will be playing the bagpipes, a traditional Scottish wind instrument quaintly known in Afrikaans as the “doedelsak”, at the Westway Makietie at Walmer West Primary School on Friday. Known as Anton Bagpipes, the talented piper is from Cape Town where his love for blowing the unusual instrument was born. “That bug bit and 20 years later I am still playing,” he said. “I am now booked for weddings and funerals but I have also played for Rocco de Villiers, who is a big name in the Afrikaans music industry.” The Westway Makietie will also feature Die Baaienaars Orkes – a Port Elizabeth group of three musicians who play toe-tapping “boeremusiek” – and Bay country music singer Yelanda Swart, 21. Die Baaienaars are brothers Riaan and Nico Claassen and Mark Ackermann who play rhythm, lead and bass guitar as well as the banjo. Over and above this, Ackerman plays keyboards and Riaan the concertina. They are well known in Port Elizabeth but Van der Pool is still a relatively undiscovered local talent. “We would like to give Anton more exposure as he really is an amazing artist,” one of the organisers of Westway Makietie, Hellen Scriven, said. She said she spotted him when she was looking “all over PE” for someone to play bagpipes at her mother’s funeral, the day before her son got married. “He is talented beyond words as it takes real skill to play the bagpipes and, being the manager of Die Baaienaars, I envisioned them playing together, creating a new genre of music.” Friday’s show is at 7pm and tickets at R60 are on sale at Westway Cafe, 349 Cape Road. Guests are invited to bring a picnic basket for the evening. Further information from Scriven, (041) 365-0217, or e-mail: hellen@westway.co.za. Fans of Afrikaans music can look forward to several big names visiting the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro over the summer season, including brother and sister Bobby and Karlien van Jaarsveld, Steve Hofmeyr and more alternative options such as Radio Kalahari Orkes. Open Sky Entertainment Park and Lapa in Little Chelsea… December 19, 2017 Not getting game time for English Premiership team Worcester Warriors turned out to be a blessing in disguise for new Southern Kings lock Wilhelm van der Sluys. The towering 25-year-old lock jumped at the opportunity to return home to South Africa in March and he quickly established himself in the… May 20, 2017 Yoliswa Sobuwa LIFE has been a roller- coaster ride for former 7 de Laan actor Fiks Mahola of New Brighton. Some may think the 35-year-old is confused about his calling as he has pursued several career paths – at one time even showing interest in becoming a Catholic priest. But… January 30, 2014