The couple – both police officers at the Mount Road Cluster – arrested two suspects inside a bank in Newton Park yesterday, despite being off duty at the time. Warrant officers Fafa and Lucille Terblanche were in the bank when they noticed a suspicious looking man walking into the manager’s office. The pair observed the man and as he exited the office, they confronted him. Just then the manager ran out shouting that his cellphone is missing. The officers searched the man and found the cellphone in his possession. The suspect and his accomplice, aged 39 and 40-years-old, were arrested and detained on charges of  theft, bribery and assault on police. The Cluster Commander for the Mount Road Cluster, Maj Gen Tembisile Patekile commended the members for a job well done and  for ‘their efforts and endeavours in arresting these criminals who were so brazen to walk into a busy institution unnoticed. Institutions and businesses are advised to monitor people that are idling about without seeking assistance.  About 397 people were arrested for various crimes across Nelson Mandela Bay at the weekend. Among those arrested was a man, 22, linked to more than 10 incidents of theft from parked cars, mainly along the beachfront. Mount Road cluster police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said 123 suspects were arrested… November 15, 2016 Three suspects are expected to appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court next week after they were arrested towing a stolen car early on Thursday morning. Police spokeswoman Captain Sandra Janse van Rensburg said police officers were patrolling the M4 freeway, in the vicinity of North End, at about 1am… April 15, 2017 A 24-year-old suspect has been arrested in connection with a farm attack in Alexandria last week. According to police, the suspect was arrested today and is currently in custody. He will appear in the Alexandria Magistrate's Court on Monday. Several items of clothing as well as the victim’s cellphone were recovered. A… December 1, 2017