Its own water supply and a three-bedroom staff suite complements the luxury on offer inside a palatial Johannesburg home‚ which is listed for a record asking price of R150-million. The seven-bedroom property is in Sandhurst. This is believed to be the highest asking price yet for a residential property in Gauteng‚ according to Seeff agency. A buyer would get a parking area that can accommodate 20 vehicles‚ fully fitted cinema room with leather chairs‚ an eat-in decorative wine cellar‚ and a party/disco room with lighting and sound equipment‚ among other features. There is also an elevator and rear staircase to all three floors‚ plus a three-bedroom staff suite as well as a borehole and water tanks‚ solar heating and home automation – all on 8 565m² of land. The main suite’s bathroom includes his and hers dressing rooms‚ a sauna‚ steam room‚ gym and hairdressing room  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  BLUEWATER Bay has long been the hunting ground of sun worshippers, fishermen and dog-walkers. And now a new type of hunt is on, one which involves capturing a mythical mermaid standing guard over a series of caves, where the water is refreshed from a host of streams cascading over carefully… November 10, 2013 Helen Crooks CHOOSING the suburb where you opt to live is just as important as finding the right house within that suburb. Schools and shops are a consideration for some, proximity to our amazing beaches is important for others, while finding some peace and tranquillity within the heart of a… February 16, 2014 By Helen Crooks TAKE yourself back to an elegant era, a time when houses had drawing rooms rather than lounges, when bells were rung to summon the servants and when children had nurseries adjacent to their bedrooms. It was an era when it was possible to make a grand entrance… October 20, 2013