The court battle between Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip and former DA activist Nontuthuzelo Jack took a step forward this week when a Port Elizabeth regional court magistrate ordered Jack to appoint an attorney to represent her. The matter stems from a statement by Jack in 2016 in which she alleged that Trollip had bribed her to dig up dirt on former DA provincial chairwoman Veliswa Mvenya. Following Jack’s statement, Trollip laid a complaint of crimen injuria and perjury against Jack. Yesterday, DA provincial spokesman Mlindi Nhanha said the party stood behind Trollip. He said Jack’s statements, made in an affidavit under oath, were “seriously defamatory and injurious to mayor Trollip’s good name, reputation and public standing”. Jack has missed several court appearances as a result of a broken leg. There were further postponements when she, on two occasions, fired her Legal Aid attorneys. Nhanha said: “These [are] delaying tactics that serve only to delay justice prevailing. “All we want is for the truth to emerge about these outrageous allegations against mayor Trollip.” Jack has since hired Port Elizabeth attorney Kuban Chetty to represent her. Chetty confirmed yesterday that Jack had appointed him on Tuesday afternoon. “We are provisionally on record for Ms Jack pending further financial instruction and instruction on merits,” Chetty said. The matter was postponed to February 19 for consultation and copies of documents to be made available. With her leg in a cast, the woman accused of defaming Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip hobbled to the front of the court yesterday, making her first appearance since the matter was transferred to the Port Elizabeth Regional Court. Struggling to balance off her crutches, former DA member Nontuthuzelo… March 9, 2017 The case in which a former politician is accused of defaming Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip has been postponed again, this time after the accused failed to arrange legal representation for herself. Former DA activist Nontuthuzelo Jack appeared briefly in the Port Elizabeth Regional Court yesterday, where she was… September 8, 2017 A criminal case against a former DA member who allegedly defamed Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip hit another snag yesterday, causing the matter to be postponed once again. A relative of Nontuthuzelo Jack, 47, arrived at the Port Elizabeth Regional Court yesterday – where Jack was due to appear… March 7, 2017