Sporting a shiny pate‚ which he said is to “save water during the drought”‚ triple axe murder accused Henri van Breda appeared in court on Monday after a two-month hiatus. This week both the state and defence will present their closing arguments – the former seeking to prove that the accused bludgeoned his parents and brother to death and left his sister for dead.  State prosecutor Susan Galloway began wrapping up her case just before 10.30am. She said her argument was made up of two parts: the first is the exclusion that any intruder could have come onto the property at 12 Goske Street. She said the property is “in the centre of the estate”‚ “in between other houses which are in close proximity with narrow winding roads linking them”‚ and that there are only three access points to the estate‚ which are linked by an electrified fence. “There was no breach of the perimeter‚ and no suspicious comings or goings through the access points. The residents are vigilant and no such complaint of a suspicious person was lodged‚” she said. “The location of the property and close proximity of other houses make it highly improbable that an intruder or intruders could have come onto the property to commit crimes and then leave again – in both directions undetected.” The second part of her argument will look at the circumstantial evidence of the murders themselves. The case continues.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  #VanBreda Henri arrives at CT high court. @TimesLIVE pic.twitter.com/UXfvryS8xG — Anthony Molyneaux (@AJGMolyneaux) April 24, 2017 Alleged triple axe murderer Henri van Breda has arrived at the High Court in Cape Town for his highly anticipated trial. Van Breda stands accused of murdering his mother Theresa‚ father Martin and brother… April 24, 2017 #vanbreda welcome back to the triple axe murder trial. Henri is assisting with setting up speakers for emergency telephone call. @TimesLIVE pic.twitter.com/MyLX6Ip2LT — Anthony Molyneaux (@AJGMolyneaux) May 17, 2017 Henri van Breda helped court staff to set up speakers on Wednesday so his triple-murder trial could hear the emergency call… May 17, 2017 Axe murder accused Henri van Breda showed emotion for the first time in court on Wednesday‚ appearing to be on the brink of tears. The display happened as his uncle‚ Cornelius Andries (Andre) van Breda — twin brother of Henri’s father Martin — took the stand in the High Court… May 10, 2017