 President Jacob Zuma has been recalled. ANC secretary general Ace Magashule, making the announcement at Luthuli House in Johannesburg on Tuesday afternoon, said the decision had been taken in accordance with the ruling party’s constitution which gives the National Executive Committee (NEC) the authority to recall its deployees. “We agreed that there should be continuing interaction between the officials of the ANC and president JZ and the decision of the decision to recall its deployees was only taking after exhaustive discussion,” he said. “The decision of NEC provides, we believe, certainly to the people of South Africa at a time when the economic and social challenges facing the country require urgent and resolute response from all sections of society Magashule said NEC members would go around the country briefing party structures about the decision “All parliamentary process that arise from this decision will also now ensue. From tomorrow, we will brief our parliamentary caucus,” he said. “We are happy that there was co-operation between all of us. The only thing is that we couldn’t agree on the short-term period in terms of the transition.” The announcement follows a marathon meeting on Monday which carried on well into Tuesday morning.   Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Whatever decision ANC takes, president will not be humiliated, says Ramaphosa The issue of recalling President Jacob Zuma is a delicate matter, newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said in a television broadcast at the weekend. He told broadcaster eNCA that whatever decision the party’s newly elected national executive committee… January 15, 2018 President Jacob Zuma has given an undertaking to respond to a formal decision by the ANC’s national executive committee to recall him from office‚ but Zuma is expected to put up a fight. A source close to the discussions said Zuma’s response is likely to be “controversial”‚ while another added… February 13, 2018 The ANC’s national executive committee has decided to recall President Jacob Zuma as head of state‚ with no deal and an ultimatum. The final decision was taken after a 13-hour marathon meeting that lasted into the early hours of Tuesday and was due to be formally communicated to him in… February 13, 2018