The alleged accomplice of a convicted child porn distributor intends to plead guilty in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court today. Prosecutor Jason Thysse told the court yesterday that the woman, 23, together with the state and investigating officer, would enter into a plea agreement once she had pleaded. The woman was arrested along with Jayde Sheldon Bailey, 35, in March 2015 and charged with the procurement and distribution of child pornography. Bailey, a father of two young girls, pleaded guilty to the charges last year and received a fiveyear sentence which he is serving at St Albans Prison. The pair were arrested at their Westering home after an extensive investigation involving the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), the Belgian police service and the South African Police Service. Cellphones, laptops, external hard drives, CDs and USB devices containing hundreds of sexually explicit images and videos of children and babies were seized. Bailey’s alleged accomplice was found with 21 explicit videos on her hard drive. She cannot be named until she pleads.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  A Westering father who pleaded guilty to possessing and distributing child pornography will be sentenced in the Port Elizabeth regional court on Friday. Jayde Bailey, 34, appeared briefly in court on Thursday. The matter was postponed to Friday when the court will also consider a correctional supervision report in mitigation… February 16, 2017 A Port Elizabeth man who went by the alias of “James Bond 00711” pleaded guilty yesterday to the possession and distribution of child pornography. Jayde Bailey, 34, of Westering, said he had been introduced to Gigatribe, a network of videos and photographs of children engaged in sexual acts, while surfing the… September 23, 2016 Just minutes after being sentenced to an effective five years behind bars, a man - found guilty of distributing child pornography - was already out on bail. Jayde Sheldon Bailey was sentenced in the Port Elizabeth Regional Court on Thursday morning (09/03/17). His attorney, Paul Roelofse, immediately brought an application for leave to… March 9, 2017