Incoming finance minister Nhlanla Nene said his attempts to resist being sent back to the post he was unceremoniously fired from just over two years ago fell on deaf ears. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced on Monday night that Nene was back at the helm of the national treasury‚ reversing a controversial decision made by Ramaphosa’s predecessor Jacob Zuma in 2015. Nene said on Monday that he was surprised to get the call. “From the onset I knew that the President had made up his mind and it would not change‚” Nene told TimesLIVE. He said he tried to resist‚ but it was very clear that Ramaposa would not take no for an answer. “I tried to resist a little‚ but I knew. He had made up his mind‚” Nene said. After being fired by Zuma‚ Nene went into business. In January‚ he turned down the position of Eskom board chair. “It is definitely a tall task ahead‚” he said of having to try steer South Africa’s economy through turbulent waters. But‚ Nene conceded‚ he was familiar with the department and was looking forward to his return to the national treasury. He confirmed that he was preparing to travel to Cape Town on Tuesday to be sworn in as an MP. Given his new role and possible conflicts of interest‚ Nene would have to resign as a non-executive director on the board of Allan Gray‚ as the resident advisor for Thebe Investment Corporation and as chairperson of new Cape Town-based investment firm Arise. Nene was first appointed to treasury as deputy minister in 2008 by then president Kgalema Motlanthe. He served as finance minister for two years from 2014. His reappointment by Ramaphosa was widely welcomed.  DA leader Mmusi Maimane‚ who was among those who welcomed the appointment‚ said: “Nene’s first action as finance minister must be to reverse the increase in VAT and transport levies‚ and introduce a range of spending cuts to plug the deficit in our public finances.”  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Rand plummets as finance minister replaced by ANC backbencher PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma has fired Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene only 18 months into his job, triggering a slump in the rand to a record low. Zuma’s second late-night cabinet reshuffle in three months sent shock waves through the political system and among… December 10, 2015 PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma has fired Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene. The statement he issued was brief and gave no reason for the sudden move, which has sent shock waves through South Africa’s financial community. The timing was cynical – just days after major rating agencies downgraded their view of South Africa’s… December 11, 2015 Former Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene will be joining the Allan Gray group as a non-executive director‚ it was announced on Monday. “We are very happy to have someone of Mr Nene’s experience on our board‚ and we are grateful that he chose to accept the appointment‚” said board chair Ian… April 18, 2016