Former Nelson Mandela Bay IT manager Mbulelo Matokazi, who was dismissed by the municipality last month, is challenging the decision and taking the city to the bargaining council. City manager Johann Mettler said Matokazi was found guilty of serious misconduct and the presiding officer recommended a dismissal. “He is currently challenging his dismissal at the bargaining council,” Mettler said. The municipality’s attorney, Wayne Gray, revealed that Matokazi was dismissed on four charges – contravening the municipality’s information security management policy, misrepresentation, disregarding instruction and making payments to an unauthorised company, and gross dishonesty. In response to questions, Gray wrote that Matokazi had accessed pornographic websites on the municipality’s laptop which he had access to by virtue of his position as the director for information and communication technology in the corporate services directorate. Gray further said Matokazi presented a dishonest explanation for the pornographic material found on his laptop. The IT manager’s third charge was that he disregarded an instruction from the executive director of corporate services to stop all payments to Baraka Enterprise Consulting and that he continued making those payments while knowing that they were unauthorised. Previously, Matokazi worked at the Bhisho legislature where he was charged with fraud and misrepresentation in 2013. He resigned before disciplinary processes could be concluded. There, he allegedly “tricked” the legislature’s administration head, Phumelele Ndamase, into signing for a R400 000 purchase of internet security software. During those disciplinary processes, Matokazi allegedly approached Ndamase with a settlement offer, which Ndamase rejected. Matokazi then resigned. He had worked for the metro for three years and nine months. Matokazi also appears in author Crispian Olver’s book How To Steal A City: The Battle for Nelson Mandela Bay. In the book, the author alleges that Matokazi confessed that his boss, Mod Ndoyana, had bullied him into doctoring a tender committee decision to support the most expensive bid on the table. Questions were put to Matokazi yesterday on his dismissal from the metro, his approach to the bargaining council, and the Bhisho issue. He declined to comment. But city wants ruling reviewed and set aside The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has been ordered to reinstate former municipal official Sox Nkanjeni and pay him almost half a million rand in backpay. The South African Local Government Bargaining Council found that while Nkanjeni’s dismissal last year was procedurally fair,… November 14, 2017 Mayor vindicated after court says Mlokothi distorted truth The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has emerged victorious in its battle with Vuyo Mlokothi, the man who had his hopes set on the sought-after city manager position. In a scathing judgment in the Port Elizabeth High Court yesterday, Mlokothi was accused of… September 6, 2017 Axed corporate services boss Mod Ndoyana is threatening a fierce legal battle with the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality for firing him. Lashing out at his former employer, Ndoyana accused the metro of flouting the legislated disciplinary process by announcing the outcome of his hearing before it was approved by the… December 15, 2016