The Film and Publications Board Appeal Tribunal has confirmed that it has overturned the 16 LS rating given to Inxeba (The Wound)‚ replacing it with an X18 rating — the same as hardcore porn. The new rating means that the film can only be distributed from an adult premises‚ which would require a special license to broadcast the film “A rating of X18 means that the material can only be distributed from designated adult premises. This means the film cannot be screened in cinemas or any other platform that is not a designated adult premise as defined by the Film and Publications Act no 96 of 1996 as amended.” The ruling came as a result of complaints by The Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa). Contralesa has called for the banning of the film and as a secondary complaint asked that it be given a higher age restriction. The film has received public backlash for its depiction of the traditional ritual of ukwaluka – a Xhosa tradition into manhood – as well as sexual identity in the form of a gay love story.  Producers for the film have not been available for comment. Complaints laid with rights bodies in bid to ensure East Cape screenings The producers, director and writers of acclaimed but controversial film Inxeba defended it at the weekend and laid formal complaints with human rights bodies in a bid to screen the film in the Eastern Cape after its premiere… February 5, 2018 The producers of controversial movie Inxeba breathed a sigh of relief yesterday as Walmer Park Shopping Centre’s NuMetro cinema started screening the film in Port Elizabeth. This comes after the producers laid formal complaints with human rights bodies at the weekend to enable screening of the film in the Eastern… February 6, 2018 It is not a crime to distribute pornography to adults on a secure channel, On Digital Media (ODM) argued in the Western Cape High Court on Wednesday (13/08/2014). Steven Budlender, for ODM, said the Sexual Offences Amendment Act and the Films and Publications Act criminalised the display and/or distribution of… August 13, 2014