The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has reiterated its commitment to ensuring the safety of athletes during the Ironman 70.3 World Championship. Mayoral committee member for safety and security John Best yesterday outlined the municipality’s plans for security during the September race. “We are determined to make sure that the only drama before and on race days will be the excitement on the course and that the safety of participants, their family, friends and spectators is not compromised,” Best said. Ahead of last year’s Ironman, two international athletes were attacked as they were cycling along the race route. In March last year, Belgian professional triathlete Frederick van Lierde was ambushed by four men, hit over the head and robbed of his cellphone and sunglasses while riding on Victoria Drive. Less than a month later, Miroslav Vrastil, of the Czech Republic, was beaten and robbed by 10 men, also on Victoria Drive. Best said patrols were already being conducted along the route. “We instituted extraordinary measures to avoid incidents by deciding on a plan of action and having meetings with clubs representing cyclists and Ironman South Africa, to inform them of our patrol times and routes. “Patrols are conducted by the metro police, traffic law enforcement, the South African Police Service and a number of private security operatives.” The municipality is also looking into the possibility of a public-private partnership to assist with security. The security plans for both events include high visibility of police at tourist attractions, foot and bicycle patrols, CCTV monitoring, by-law enforcement, crime prevention – and no public alcohol abuse. The planned cycling route for the Ironman 70.3 World Championship has been altered to provide a safer course for the thousands of international triathletes expected in Port Elizabeth in September. This emerged at a joint media briefing by mayor Athol Trollip and Ironman world championship vice-president Diana Bertsch yesterday. A… January 19, 2018 Yoliswa Sobuwa and Shaanaaz de Jager  THE gloomy wintry weather of the past few days is expected to give way to some sunshine as thousands of triathletes descend on Nelson Mandela Bay for the Spec-Savers Ironman South Africa competition this weekend. The athletes will, however, have to contend with choppy… April 11, 2013 Van Lierde again fully focused on Ironman Belgian professional triathlete Frederik van Lierde, who was mugged and robbed in Walmer last week, has placed the attack behind him and is now focusing on the Ironman African Championship event in the city on Sunday. Van Lierde, 37, was cycling in preparation… March 29, 2017