The net is closing in on suspects involved in Wednesday’s mass killing of police officers at the Ngcobo police station, with the police saying they are following strong leads. The national team tasked with tracking down the Ngcobo police station killers brought several men in for questioning today after they allegedly produced names that did not correspond with their IDs when they checked in at a Komani bed and breakfast. Constable Kuhle Mathetha, 27, of Cofimvaba, Warrant Officer Zuko Mbini, 45, of Zimbane Valley in Mthatha, Constable Zuko Ntsheku, 38, of Luhewini in Ngcobo, Constable Nkosiphendule Pongco, 32, of Ngqeleni, and Constable Sibongiseni Sandlana, 32, of Qunu near Mthatha, were killed on Wednesday after unknown gunmen opened fire at the police station and took 10 guns. It was initially said that the men had been “arrested” for the murders of the five officers, and two others, but later confirmed that they were only brought in for questioning. Eastern Cape police spokesman captain Khaya Tonjeni said since the national task team was formed, much ground had been covered and great progress was achieved. “We can confirmed there are people who have been taken in for questioning. This is standard procedure  during the process of any investigation. “People will be questioned and this will not be done differently in this case,” he said. Tonjeni said a formal announcement would be made should there be any significant developments in the investigation. “In the meantime we will refrain from reporting any further minuscule details on the progress of the case . We will wait until there is something tangible and meaningful. “We earlier confirmed there are people that have been taken in for questioning. This is standard procedure during the process of any investigations. The investigation is at an advanced but sensitive stage. We don’t want to create unnecessary excitement and tensions but we are following very strong leads.” *NOTE: It was previously reported that four men had been arrested in connection with the murders. Police notified the media that they were only taken in for questioning. This story was amended on Thursday evening to reflect new information provided by SAPS regarding the men being taken in for questioning. The five policemen killed in an execution style attack on a police station in Ngcobo in the Eastern Cape have been identified. Police on Thursday released pictures of the five officers, some of them in their police uniform. Warrant officer Zikho Mbini, 45; Constable Sibongiseni Sandlana, 32; Constable Nkosiphendule Ponco,… February 22, 2018 The slaughter of five police officers and a retired soldier in Ngcobo yesterday morning was the second attack on the police station in less than a year. Police believe the gang that carried out yesterday’s deadly attack could be the same one that struck in March last year. But unlike… February 22, 2018 The attack by robbers on the Ngcobo police station is not the first. In March last year‚ a Hollywood-style stick-up took place just after midnight in the town when an estimated 15 armed robbers drilled their way into a Standard Bank and shot at police‚ the police station and houses… February 22, 2018