Nakhane Touré broke his silence on the ruling from the Film and Publication’s Appeal Tribunal that Inxeba (The Wound) be reclassified from 16 LS to X18 – a rating that is usually given to hard-core porn and can only be shown at designated adult premises. The ruling came after complaints from The Men and Boy Foundation and the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa). The tribunal panel‚ which is assigned by the minister of communications‚ ruled that the rating originally given by the Film and Publications Board should be changed. Touré said he would only comment today but late on Wednesday night released an emotional statement‚ detailing how he has been treated. “We are vile. We are perverse. A virus that they will do anything to get rid of. I sat in my apartment ready for the verdict‚ close to tears‚ shaking,” Touré said. “I saw myself as a child‚ mocked for being effeminate. Afraid for my life as a teenager as I walked past straight men as I had no idea what they were capable of. I always had something to hide. They hated me.” Despite the hurt‚ Touré said he refused to be ashamed. “I’m allowed to be emotional. This is my life. These are our lives. And I *** refuse to live in shame for your patriarchy to keep living. I’m an umXhosa and I don’t know what to do with what I love‚ but doesn’t love me.” Producers of the film have said they are studying the decision and awaiting feedback from their legal team. You can read Touré’s full response here: I said I’d sit until tomorrow to share my feelings about the Inxeba X18 rating, but Fuck that. I’m raw now A post shared by  NAKHANE. (@nakhaneofficial) on Feb 14, 2018 at 10:22am PST  Producers of Inxeba (The Wound) are seeking legal advice after the Film and Publications Board Appeal Tribunal overturned the 16 LS rating given to the film‚ replacing it with a X18 rating. The new classification is the highest of its kind and is the same given to hardcore porn. It… February 15, 2018 Actor and singer Nakhane Touré plays one of the lead roles in Inxeba (The Wound) and said the movie had “become a weird myth” in his life. He was speaking to Indie Mag and described how he never dreamt it would be shortlisted for the Oscars. “I never considered it… February 13, 2018 The Film and Publications Board Appeal Tribunal has confirmed that it has overturned the 16 LS rating given to Inxeba (The Wound)‚ replacing it with an X18 rating — the same as hardcore porn. The new rating means that the film can only be distributed from an adult premises‚ which… February 14, 2018