The Hawks would not say whether former president Jacob Zuma’s son, Duduzane, is a person of interest or if a warrant had been issued for his arrest. “The only person we spoke about was Ajay [Gupta],” Hawks spokesman Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said yesterday. “Now people want to know what is happening within our investigations. We can’t talk about those things. “Those are operational matters. “We find it very difficult that people talk about Duduzane‚ they talk about the other Guptas.” National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesman Luvuyo Mfaku said they could only comment if a warrant was issued. He said the NPA would file court papers at the Bloemfontein High Court today to oppose Atul Gupta’s application to have the preservation order the NPA’s Asset Forfeiture Unit obtained set aside. The preservation order froze R10-million in Atul’s bank account. This money relates to the AFU investigation into the Estina dairy project in Vrede in the Free State. The project was established in partnership with Gupta-linked company Estina. A total of R220-million meant to benefit poor farmers was allegedly siphoned off from Estina to the Guptas and others. Unit to serve order on consulting firm and Gupta-linked company The Asset Forfeiture Unit will serve an order today to preserve about R1.6-billion in assets of global consulting firm McKinsey and Gupta-linked Trillian Capital Partners. National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) spokesman Luvuyo Mfaku said the action would be taken on the… January 16, 2018 President Jacob Zuma's son Duduzane could be hauled before the courts to face a criminal charge of culpable homicide. Civil rights group AfriForum on Tuesday announced that they would pursue the prosecution after the National Prosecuting Authority's 2015 decision not to. Leading the charge is renowned prosecutor Gerrie Nel. AfriForum… October 17, 2017 SEVERAL senior Hawks officials have been implicated in the CIA-style rendition of Zimbabwean dissidents. A two-year investigation by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate, overseen by the Civilian Police Secretariat, follows the disappearance of at least 16 Zimbabweans from South Africa four years ago. A detailed report is with the National… May 20, 2014