Two Dutch tourists have been mugged and robbed of their valuables while walking a nature trail at Wilderness on the Garden Route. SANParks said on Tuesday its rangers and police officials were on high alert after the robbery. “We received the news with shock at about 14.30 yesterday and immediately responded by increasing the number of rangers patrolling the Brown Hooded trail‚” Paddy Gordon‚ park manager of the Garden Route National Park said. Gordon said the couple had been walking on the Brown-hooded trail in Wilderness. “They are staying in a private establishment close to the National Park. “The couple is expected to attend a trauma debriefing session organised by the police. “While SAPS continues to search for the suspects‚ SANParks has escalated the number of patrols on the trail and continues to engage the policing forum for Wilderness.” Gordon said while this was the first criminal incident reported in Wilderness. SANParks is requesting all visitors to its trails to not make expensive valuables visible while on trails. This includes jewellery‚ cameras‚ cellphones and other items. The Brown-hooded trail is a three-hour linear route which is about 5km. It goes through forest patches and hikers get to cross the Duiwe River at least five times whilst on the trail. In September last year‚ dozens of elderly Dutch tourists‚ who had just arrived at OR Tambo International Airport in Johannesburg for a three-week holiday in South Africa‚ were attacked by armed robbers posing as police. The suspects apparently followed them from the airport. The Bryde’s whale washed up last Friday was buried today at Kleinkranz, Wilderness, said SANParks spokesperson Nandi Mgwadlamba. Mgwadlamba said speculation about the adult male whale’s cause of death was old age as there were no visible injuries anywhere on its body. Marine Ranger for Wilderness Jonathan Britton, explaining the… February 14, 2018 A tour operator guiding two Dutch tourists involved in a rescue at the Knysna National Parks forest on Monday did not have a permit for kloofing, SA National Parks (SANParks) said on Tuesday (11/11/2014). "They had the right permit for access to the Drupkelders hiking trail but we never issue… November 11, 2014 SOUTH African national parks across the Eastern and Southern Cape will open their gates free of charge to visitors this week after the 10th annual National Parks Week was launched yesterday. The campaign – first established in 2006 to showcase SANParks’ assets to visitors – will run until Friday. The… September 15, 2015