Madibaz rugby coach David Maidza wants to see better finishing from his team when they run out for their second Varsity Cup fixture against the Central University of Technology (CUT) in Bloemfontein on Monday. Playing their first home game in two years, the Nelson Mandela University side went down 27-17 in their opening fixture against the University of Cape Town at Madibaz Stadium last Monday. Maidza said while they were pleased to have had a home game after last year’s stadium revamp had forced them to play all their fixtures away, they were disappointed with the result. “I thought we were effective with the ball in hand, especially in the outer channels, but at the same time we did not finish off,” the coach said. “For example, in the first half we had a number of opportunities to put some points on the board, but we did not use them properly.” He said there were a couple of areas in their game they needed to work on. “We need to make sure we get our attacking shape right and concentrate on finishing off those moves. “On Monday, we had to move a loosehead prop to tighthead so we struggled a bit in the scrums and that is something we’ll be focusing on.” He added that they would also work on tidying up their lineouts to create stable set-pieces, which would provide a better base from which to attack. Maidza said he was positive about the path ahead. “I am confident there will be an improvement. This was our first game, so a little bit of match fitness is required, but we will pick that up as we go along.” While CUT are struggling somewhat after losing their first two games, the Madibaz mentor said they preferred to focus on their own play. “We have to understand that we need to fix our own game,” he said. “If we start concentrating on CUT we might lose our own focus, so that is our approach going forward.” He acknowledged that CUT were a capable outfit and said the Bloem side would also be aiming to improve their own game. “We want to bounce back from Monday’s result as we fight for a higher position on the log.” While it was early days, Maidza said he thought Stellenbosch could be the team to beat. “Maties have a good side and they have started very well. But there’s a long way to go.” Coach Maidza wants more from team AFTER two matches, demanding Madibaz coach David Maidza says his team’s performances are still not up to scratch as they bid to make the Varsity Cup semifinals for a third consecutive season defeat against Pukke on the opening day of the season, followed by a… February 19, 2015 Coach determined to avoid relegation scrap After four seasons in the Madibaz coaching hot seat, few people know their way around the challenging Varsity Cup rugby circuit like former Zimbabwe international player David Maidza. This year the Madibaz will need to draw on all of Maidza’s experience to guide them… January 27, 2018 George Byron PASSIONATE Madibaz coach David Maidza has not given up on a coveted spot in the Varsity Cup semifinals, despite his team crashing to a 26-13 defeat to the University of Cape Town at the NMMU Stadium. After winning their opening two matches against the Maties and the University… February 20, 2014