Chaos erupted at the Port Elizabeth High Court yesterday when the sister of a convicted murderer swore at the murder victim’s family before she was escorted from the building. Nicolene Malie became aggressive and used abusive language towards the family of Sean “Nako” Berry after Judge Dayalin Chetty convicted her brother, Gregory, 34, and his co-accused Sherwin Grootboom, 25, of Berry’s murder. After court adjourned and following the men’s conviction the woman became enraged while standing at the door of the court room. She was physically removed from the building but continued her tirade, swearing at officials and calling them names while walking away. Malie and Grootboom were convicted of the June 2016 murder of Berry and the attempted murder of Shoalin Afrikaaner. Berry was shot twice while standing in the street a few houses down from his home in Salt Lake. Berry was certified dead on arrival at Livingstone Hospital. Delivering his judgment, Chetty said the state had proven beyond reasonable doubt that Malie and Grootboom had murdered Berry. “It is clear they acted with a common purpose [to kill Berry].” Berry’s murder happened a month after the fatal shooting of his brother, notorious gang kingpin, Donovan “Staal” Berry. The court ruled evidence showed that Berry was targeted after tensions flared between the accused and the Berry family after they were banned from the area and kicked out of a property, well known as a local drug den, owned by Staal. Chetty said it was undisputed that Staal was a gang member and that despite denial by Malie and Grootboom, the court found that they were also gangsters. “Denial that they were part of [Staal’s] gang is determined as false by the court,” Chetty said. He said there was no concrete evidence to suggest that Berry was a gang member, although this was claimed by both accused. Malie has three previous convictions, one for theft and two for robbery. Grootboom has no previous convictions. After the judgment, Malie’s defence advocate, Jodine Coertzen, asked the court to postpone the matter for a social worker to determine the wellbeing of the convicted murderer’s two-year-old daughter before sentencing. It was postponed to March 2. A self-confessed former drug peddler and murder suspect told the Port Elizabeth High Court yesterday that he was aware of tensions between the Berry family and people who lived in properties belonging to gang kingpin Donovan “Staal” Berry following his murder. Staal, 47, and his brother, Sean “Nako” Berry, 33,… February 6, 2018 Victim gunned down in street while telling joke A young man told the Port Elizabeth High Court yesterday how three men he grew up with had approached his father – who was in the middle of telling a joke – before they silently covered their faces, drew guns and fired… February 1, 2018 THE two men accused of brutally raping, torturing and murdering a Uitenhage woman in 2012 were expressionless as they were both convicted in the Port Elizabeth High Court yesterday. Judge Dayalin Chetty found both Siphosetu Hempe, 24, and Loyiso Grootboom, 29, of KwaNobuhle, guilty on charges of kidnapping, raping and… November 14, 2014