Park edged Star of Hope with a hard-fought 23-22 victory in the fourth round of the Eastern Cape Super 12 rugby competition at Londt Park in Port Elizabeth on Saturday. The home side showed their fighting spirit to stick it out to the last minute of the game. Star of Hope were out to prove themselves as worthy opponents and the visitors drew first blood with a brilliant try from fullback Siyabonga Kasibe, who used his speed to out-run a Park defender. Stars controlled the game for most of the first half and scored a second try through eighthman Ntsika Fisanti. Park fought back and a try from flanker Kuhle Sonkosi put them back in the game. Flyhalf Handre Snetler slotted the conversion from a difficult position. As the game progressed, the Star of Hope side were becoming sloppy and conceded three consecutive penalties and Snetler managed to put them away with ease. There was even more action in the second half as both sides showed their physicality. The forwards were working overtime and neither team wanted to lose. Park were caught napping in a breakdown and hefty hooker Mziwanele Besman bulldozed his way through some weak defending but flyhalf Siviwe Konki could not convert the try. Prop Sonwabo Jam added another try that put the visitors ahead. But a moment of individual brilliance from Park fullback Andries Garca saw them come from behind to win the game in the last minute. Results: Park 23 Star of Hope 22 Despatch 27 Kruisfontein 24 Breakers 14 Gardens 20 EL Police 12 Berlin Tigers 13 PARK beat NMMU 37-3 in their EPRU Grand Challenge fixture played at Londt Park on Saturday to claim their second win of the campaign. NMMU were without 18 of their players who were out due to injury and Varsity Sevens duty. But Park were in no mood to show any… May 2, 2016 WITH three games left in the season, second-placed PE SAPS will be looking to close the gap between themselves and EP Grand Challenge leaders Despatch when they welcome African Bombers to Kemsley Park at the weekend. After nine wins in as many matches, the cops are five points behind Despatch… July 10, 2015 PE SAPS continued their winning ways when they thumped African Bombers 56-12 in their EP Grand Challenge club rugby encounter at Kemsley Park at the weekend. The victory means the cops maintained their unbeaten record in their pursuit of automatically qualifying for the Cell C Community Cup. Bombers, who tasted… July 13, 2015