President Cyril Ramaphosa on Friday withdrew an appeal lodged by his predecessor Jacob Zuma against a court ruling that the former head of state was too conflicted to appoint Shaun Abrahams as National Director of Public Prosecutions. According to a letter sent by the State Attorney’s office to the registrar of the Constitutional Court on Friday‚ “regime change” – as well as discussions with Ramaphosa – had led to the decision. This comes after Zuma last month appealed a North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria ruling that the former head of state was too conflicted to appoint anyone to the position of the National Director of Public Prosecutions – this because he might himself be facing criminal charges. The case was meant to be heard on February 28. “With the current regime change and after consultation with the current President of the Republic of South Africa‚ we are instructed to inform this Court‚ that the first respondent [the President] is no longer prosecuting its appear and therefore will not be present to argue the matter on 28 February 2018‚” the letter reads. It continued‚ however‚ that Zuma still had the option to continue the appeal in a personal capacity. “To the extent that the former president may want to pursue argument on matters affecting him personally he may do so through his legal representatives‚” it said. As deputy president‚ Ramaphosa had previously filed a notice to abide by the court’s decision. Lawson Naidoo of the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution‚ which is one of the parties to the case‚ said this development wouldn’t prevent the case going ahead. He said other orders of the high which needed to be confirmed as unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. The Presidency on Friday confirmed the withdrawing of the president’s appeal. “President Cyril Ramaphosa has indicated to the Constitutional Court that he will withdraw the appeal filed in the matter of Corruption Watch and Others v The President of the Republic of South Africa‚ which concerns the appointment of the National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP). The only issue that had been appealed by the President of the Republic was whether or not the former President or his then Deputy should appoint the NDPP. “That matter is now moot‚” the Presidency said in a statement. It added that Ramaphosa would not be in court on Wednesday when the Constitutional Court considered whether or not to confirm the High Court’s decision that some sections of the National Prosecuting Authority Act – those dealing with suspension of the NDPP – were unconstitutional. President Jacob Zuma has filed court papers‚ outlining why is he is appealing a ruling that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa should appoint a new national director of public prosecutions‚ eNCA reported on Thursday. The High Court in Pretoria last week ruled that the appointment of current prosecutions boss Shaun Abrahams… December 14, 2017 President Jacob Zuma once again used the late hours of the night to make a major move – this time submitting representations to the National Prosecuting Authority on why he should not face fraud and corruption charges – with less than three hours to go before the deadline expired. According… February 1, 2018 National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams has extended President Jacob Zuma’s deadline to explain why he should not face corruption charges. Zuma now has until January 31 to make a submission to Abrahams on why the case against him should be dropped. His initial deadline had been November 30,… December 12, 2017