Two of the cars stolen from a Greenbushes depot on Friday have been found inside a residential garage in Kwazakhele. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the cars – Volkswagen Polos – were found locked inside a garage in Nconco Street at about 10am on Monday following an anonymous tip-off. The cars and two others – worth about R1.3-million – were allegedly stolen from the depot. A fifth car, A Volkwagen Caddy also initially thought to have been stolen, was found on the premises. “It appears that the suspects tried to drive off with it when the vehicle ran out of petrol inside the depot yard,” Naidu said. “The suspects then just left the Caddy in the yard between the other vehicles. Only during a stock audit did they spot the Caddy out of place in the yard.” Naidu said no arrests had been made yet. “Both cars have been impounded and our forensic experts are going through them to gather evidence,” she said.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  A robbery at a car depot in Greenbushes on Friday and heightened community speculation about suspected gangsters ultimately triggered a wave of panic and turmoil in KwaNobuhle at the weekend. Volkswagen vehicles worth about R1.3-million were stolen from the depot on Friday night, police said yesterday. Hours later rumours surfaced… February 12, 2018 Criminals posing as cops, towing firms rip off Bay motorists A scam in which criminals masquerading as police officers and tow truck owners ask victims of car theft to pay cash to retrieve their “recovered” vehicles has emerged in Nelson Mandela Bay. This comes as three people were hijacked and… November 10, 2017 A suspected hijacker who has been implicated in two hijackings this week was caught red handed while refuelling one of the cars he had allegedly stolen. The 27-year-old man, who police are only naming once he has been charged in court, was arrested by the Bay’s specialist Hijacking Task Team.… December 11, 2015