The ANC has cancelled a meeting of its national executive committee that had been scheduled for Wednesday, following a day of discussions between Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and President Jacob Zuma. The NEC meeting would have discussed feedback from a meeting of the ruling party’s national working committee at Luthuli House on Tuesday. That meeting came after talks between the ANC’s top six officials and Zuma on Monday, where the leadership tried to persuade the president to resign. ANC spokeswoman Khusela Diko on Tuesday evening confirmed the postponement of the meeting. The cancellation of the meeting of the NEC, the highest decision-making body in the ANC between conferences, came hours after Speaker of Parliament Baleka Mbete announced that the annual state of the nation address – which was to be held in Parliament on Thursday – would be postponed. Zuma had been due to deliver the speech. He and Ramaphosa met at Genadendal, the president’s official residence in Cape Town, for most of Tuesday. This is a developing story. ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe made a revealing remark on Wednesday about the fierce disagreements going on behind closed doors within the ruling party. “The point we are making is that we find it adult enough to close a door‚ beat each other up and‚ if you find me with… April 6, 2017 President Jacob Zuma’s political future rests in the hands of parliament after he turned down a request from the ANC leadership to step down voluntarily. Yesterday, the ANC’s national working committee met late into the night to discuss Zuma’s refusal and map a way forward. The party confirmed shortly after… February 6, 2018 President Jacob Zuma’s cheerleader‚ the ANC Youth League‚ has vowed to oppose any attempts to have him recalled at Wednesday’s special national executive committee (NEC) meeting in East London. Speaking to the Dispatch in Duncan Village during a door-to-door visit to child-headed households on Tuesday‚ ANCYL secretary-general Njabulo Nzuza said… January 10, 2018