At the time of writing, Sunday evening, there is no certainty over who will deliver this year’s state of the nation address (Sona). Nor is there any certainty whether the Sona will, actually, be delivered on Thursday, as scheduled by parliament. All that we can do is hope and wait. This waiting plays games with the imagination. Imagining, then, that Cyril Ramaphosa is able to step out of the snake pit, he may well become the accidental president who changed the future of history. Yes, dear reader, I did just write that history has a future. Please indulge me. Let us start with the “accidental” president. Looking back at the ANC’s electoral conference of last December, the election of Ramaphosa did, indeed, seem like an accident. Among other, his presidency of the ANC was described as a poisoned chalice and the top six elected with him were described as a disaster for him. At the end of the conference, there was a general sense that almost everyone around him was put in place to provide a support system for Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma. This support system, as it stands, comprises some of the more odious characters in the state-party nexus. Let us be clear, there are some exceptional people in the ANC’s national executive committee, but the ones who imagined they would have roles behind the Dlamini-Zuma throne are expected to now support Ramaphosa. This, then, is how I reach the idea of the accidental president. Explaining “the future of history” thesis requires imagination and a lot more than a single column to fully explain. Nonetheless, if we cast our gaze backward, across the history of most African countries after they became independent, there are discernible patterns of political economic development – notwithstanding the range of contending arguments. As a generalisation, in varying permutations the first independent governments almost always were made up of former guerillas, or former extra-parliamentary politicians who fought colonial governments and who, by extension, had no formal experience of running a complex state. Once in power, they assumed office within structures created by the colonial powers. This was as true in India as it was in most African countries. Shortly after independence, very many African governments also made diabolical economic policy decisions. Not all of them were inspired by marxism. The poster child for these poor decisions is probably Ghana. It has been well reported, but worth restating that in 1957, Ghana had more or less the same annual per capita gross domestic product (GDP) as South Korea. Within a generation (25 to 30 years) South Korea’s annual purchasing power per head was about 10 times that of Ghana’s. By the early 1980s Ghana’s per capita income was around US$400, while South Korea’s was estimated at around US$2 000. Among the causes of decline in both Zimbabwe and Ghana was the permissibility of hyperinflation, nationalisation, cronyism, prebendalism and investment in infrastructure that never quite saw the light of day. Deeper into independence most governments initiated violent pogroms against “non-Africans”. In Uganda Idi Amin “got rid” of Indians. In Zimbabwe Robert Mugabe made it impossible for whites to remain in the country. It is also true that many whites left Zimbabwe because they were simply racist, Afro-pessimists or because they wanted “a better future for their children”. We should not imagine that we have all the answers. Further north, in Algeria, during the Oran Massacre of July 1962, European expatriates (including indigenous Sephardi Jews) were given the option of the “suitcase or the coffin” – pack your bags and leave, or stay and be killed. Elsewhere, much of the “getting rid” of Indians or European expatriates across the continent was based on “indigenisation”, “Zambianisation” or “Africanisation” processes that, after further diabolical outcomes, were eventually reversed. The evidence tells very many horrific (and positive) stories, but many countries have somehow turned to more stable political economic policies, two generations after 1960, the year of African independence. There are 54 countries in Africa and one should not generalise. The evidence does, nonetheless, point to a history of path dependence. A Ramaphosa presidency, if he is granted the policy space, may break with the path dependency that guided most post-independence African states. Path dependency refers to the idea that decisions follow particular preconceived knowledge trajectories, and typically ignore new knowledge, conditions or competencies. It relies only on history for current decision-making and strategic planning. Whereas the Nelson Mandela presidency foregrounded reconciliation and unity, Thabo Mbeki placed greater emphasis on an inclusive African identity. This was well articulated in his epochal speech, “I am an African”, in 1996. It was with Jacob Zuma, after 2007, that tribalism entered South African politics. More recently Julius Malema shredded any semblance of reconciliation and unity, and spewed his own version of the “suitcase or the coffin” that caused many European expatriates to leave Algeria after independence. We know that there have been nasty things said about Indians. They have not come for the “coloureds” (yet). In conclusion, then, a Ramaphosa presidency may break with the (historical) path dependency that shaped so many African political economies after independence. In doing so, he will change the future of history. EFF leader Julius Malema has called on the ANC to leave President Jacob Zuma to the EFF. “Leave him to us. It looks like this guy has defeated you‚” Malema said following the party’s plenum meeting held over the weekend in Braamfontein‚ Johannesburg. Malema’s remarks came as reports emerged that… February 5, 2018 The election of Cyril Ramaphosa as ANC president heralded a new beginning for South Africa after a tough year for the country last year. This was the view of political commentator Justice Malala, who was speaking at an event held by financial services group PSG at the Boardwalk Hotel… January 31, 2018 Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has said that buying votes is a “new disease” gripping the ANC. “It is concerning to a point where it is going to dilute democracy within our organisation‚” Ramaphosa said on Thursday night on the Karima Brown Show on Radio 702. “We’ve been hearing stories that… December 8, 2017