One of grandmother Denise Bartlett’s two accused kidnappers is a 45-year-old former dog unit police officer. Komani police spokeswoman Captain Namhla Mdleleni yesterday confirmed that one of the suspects lives behind the Bartletts’ Sterkstroom home. Mdleleni would not say which of the two it was. However, Bartlett’s daughter, DA councillor Lindy Haggard, who lives with Bartlett in the Sterkstroom house, and Sterkstroom community leader Ntsikelelo Qibi, said they knew Andre Cornelius because he lived in the house behind the Bartletts. “We share the same back wall, and sometimes we would go and chill there. “They can really play loud music, but last week the music was at an acceptable level. “We did not think for a moment that she was close by.” News of the former cop’s connection to the five-day abduction and kidnapping emerged yesterday when two men appeared in the Sterkstroom Magistrate’s Court. They are accused of abducting the Sterkstroom grandmother, 71, for five days and attempting to extract a R3-million ransom. Cornelius, 45, a retired warrant officer in the K9 unit, and co-accused Raymond Fillis, 37, faced charges of kidnapping and house robbery. They were making their first appearance after being arrested on Friday. Yesterday, Captain Mdleleni said: “One of the suspects stays behind the victim’s house.” She confirmed that Bartlett was found in the home of one of the suspects. “The case was postponed to Monday for a formal bail application,” she said. Bartlett was abducted by two armed men from her family home in Sterkstroom on Tuesday night.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Police trace Sterkstroom woman to locked house and arrest two suspects Kidnapped Sterkstroom grandmother Denise Bartlett, 71, has been found alive, but hungry. After almost five days of searching, Komani police found her locked in a house near Sterkstroom yesterday. Her alleged kidnappers did not get the R3-million they had… February 10, 2018 Komani police are working around the clock trying to find the Sterkstroom grandmother who was kidnapped by two armed men who robbed her home on Tuesday. Denise Bartlett, the mother of Enoch Mgijima local municipality councillor Lindy Haggard, who confirmed yesterday her mother was still missing, was robbed at her… February 9, 2018 The 71-year-old Eastern Cape woman who was assaulted, robbed and kidnapped from her home in Sterkstroom by two unknown suspects on Tuesday night has been found. Captain Namhla Mdleleni said Denise Bartlett was found alive. Police said that the elderly woman was with her granddaughter when they were attacked by two armed… February 9, 2018