Former president Jacob Zuma is set to face the music —  soon he will be charged with the arms-deal corruption case and he might face ill-discipline charges by his party. The Sunday Times can reveal that the National Prosecuting Authority  is going to recommend  that some of the charges against Zuma be reinstated, having  lined up more than 200 witnesses to testify against him. Zuma — who stepped down this week following a scandal-ridden presidency of nine years —  is likely to face 18 main charges of  racketeering, corruption, money laundering, tax evasion and fraud  related to the arms-deal corruption  involving his former financial adviser Schabir Shaik. On Tuesday NPA boss Shaun Abrahams said he would announce his decision on whether Zuma will be charged after receiving recommendations from his team. The Sunday Times has, however, learnt that the NPA team would recommend that Zuma be charged — this is set to happen in the next few weeks. “Zuma is going to have his day in court soon and it’s going to be ugly,” an NPA source said this week.  Read the full story in Sunday Times President Jacob Zuma has until the end of the day to submit fresh representations to the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) on why he should not face corruption charges. The deadline comes at a time when the ANC is facing pressure to remove Zuma from office before his term ends in… January 31, 2018 The full bench of the High Court in Pretoria has set aside a decision to discontinue the prosecution of President Jacob Zuma taken in April 2009. The court held that the decision of 1 April 2009‚ taken by Acting National Director of Public Prosecutions Mokotedi Mpshe to drop 783 charges‚… April 29, 2016 President Jacob Zuma once again used the late hours of the night to make a major move – this time submitting representations to the National Prosecuting Authority on why he should not face fraud and corruption charges – with less than three hours to go before the deadline expired. According… February 1, 2018