In six weeks’ time the DA will gather more than 2 000 members to elect the party’s new national leadership – and Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip says he is available for re-election. The congress will be held at the Tshwane Events Centre on April 7- 8. Trollip said: “I will be running for re-election in my current position [DA federal chairperson].” His prominence within the DA has been boosted by his party winning the Bay metro in 2016, with the help of smaller parties. His national ambitions have been characterised by wins and losses. In 2007, Trollip, who hails from Bedford, unsuccessfully ran for party leader against Helen Zille. Two years later he beat Ryan Coetzee to become a parliamentary leader. His attempt to get re-elected in the position was stopped by then-new star in the DA, Lindiwe Mazibuko. Trollip spent time as a backbencher in parliament before returning to the Eastern Cape, where he became provincial leader. Communications director Mabine Seabe said it was all systems go for the national congress, with just the Mpumalanga provincial congress to be convened soon. National nominations would be opened in two weeks’ time, Seabe said.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Voting for the DA’s new Eastern Cape leadership got underway on Friday afternoon. About 500 DA members are in attendance at the two-day congress in East London, where provincial leader Athol Trollip’s successor will be elected. The results of the provincial executive committee of the DA will only be announced… May 5, 2017 THE task of being the second most powerful leader in the DA, and replacing leaders of the stature of Helen Zille and Tony Leon, are daunting prospects, says newly elected DA federal chairman Athol Trollip. Trollip, who is also the mayoral candidate for the Nelson Mandela Bay metro, said the… May 18, 2015 They come from different political parties but these campaign managers have one thing in common – they are all after your vote. Reporters THULANI GQIRANA and MKHULULI NDAMASE take a closer look at the people who are likely to come knocking on your doorstep. YOU might have seen its election… March 6, 2014