Springbok coach Allister Coetzee was officially sacked on Friday following two seasons of woeful results for the Springboks. The 54-year-old becomes the first Springbok coach to be dismissed while still under contract since Rudolf Straeuli following the 2003 World Cup. Coetzee was contracted up to and including the 2019 World Cup‚ but after his Springboks won only 11 of 25 Tests (44%) during 2016 and 2017‚ his position had become untenable. In a statement SA Rugby said that it had reached an agreement with Allister Coetzee to part ways with immediate effect. The Rugby Department of SA Rugby‚ under Rassie Erasmus will manage the responsibilities of the Springbok coach until the national team’s coaching and management group for 2018 is confirmed later on in February. Coetzee and SA Rugby agreed to terminate the relationship after a two-year association. “First and foremost we had to assess what is in the best interests of the Springboks‚” SA Rugby CEO Jurie Roux said. “We’d like to thank Allister for his passion and dedication to the Springbok cause and wish him every success in his next role.” Allister Coetzee said: “I have always held Springbok rugby dear to my heart and will continue to do so and for that reason I think now is the time the team and me strike out in new directions. I wish Springbok rugby every success in the future – as I have always done.” The confirmation of the Springbok management setup is due to be completed before the end of February. Last week Coetzee wrote a scathing letter to Roux‚ claiming he was set up to fail‚ but it appears that the only outcome of the letter was to drive the final nail into his coffin. – TimesLIVE Allister Coetzee has been named as head coach of the Springboks for the next four years. The 52-year-old former Springbok assistant coach succeeds Heyneke Meyer. The appointment comes at a time when a number of veterans of the 2007 Rugby World Cup triumph have gone into retirement‚ including three of… April 12, 2016 Notorious for dragging its heels when it comes to making tough decisions, SA Rugby needs to make a quick call on the future of coach Allister Coetzee. While many thought Coetzee would get the boot immediately after the end-of-season European tour, the saga has been allowed to drag on. On his… December 31, 2017 But official announcement delayed to next week THE identity of the next Springbok coach will not immediately be announced after today’s SA Rugby general council meeting as originally scheduled. But council members will be told of the preferred coach and they will be asked to ratify the appointment. It is… April 1, 2016