Port Elizabeth’s Galerie Noko is presenting a new exhibition, Signs of the Times, at the gallery in Russell Road from tomorrow. Signs of the Times is a themed exhibition that seeks to bring metaphoric interpretations of contemporary culture, conjectures, ideas, political and socio-economic leanings to audiences. The exhibition will feature artworks in various mediums that cut across photography, painting, sculpture, installation, ceramics and so forth. “We as a people are at the epicentre of art and culture, with a distinct, interwoven multicultural influence unique to us,” a gallery spokesman said. “Diversity is our strength and art is most impactful when it includes or transcends all boundaries.” The exhibition was conceptualised to provide a contemporary platform to help empower, offer fresh perspectives, connect and engage Bay and Eastern Cape audiences, he said. Linking up with the exhibition there will be a talk and panel discussion – “Dialog Port Elizabeth” – led by esteemed artists, designers, collectors and art influencers next month. Signs of the Times opens at 6pm for 6.30pm tomorrow. Annette Loubser will be the speaker and participating artists will include Monique Willfen Rorke, Qhama Maswana, Mziwoxolo Makalima, Lee Hensberg, Dorothy Barnes, Jonathan Silverman and others. Galerie Noko is at 109 to 111 Russell Road and is open from Monday to Friday, 10am to 6pm and Saturday from 10am to 4pm. For more information, contact 073-088-5883, (041) 582-2090 or e-mail: galerienoko@gmail.com. Profound discourse by female artists at Galerie Noko to wrap up Women’s Month GALERIE Noko is closing off Women’s Month with a bang by opening a women-only exhibition at the Russell Road gallery called Saints and Sinners – Journey through Womanhood. The exhibition which opened on Tuesday, features some of… August 29, 2015 Swedish-born painter Johan Bloom’s solo exhibition Reflective Identities can be viewed at Galerie Noko in Russell Road. The month-long exhibition is one of the artist’s first solo exhibitions at Galerie Noko and deals with the human condition and what it means “to us”. Bloom said his works looked at “our… February 17, 2017 There are several art exhibitions on in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro this week, as follows: ALLIANCE FRANCAISE: The Alliance Francaise is hosting the I See You With My Heart multimedia exhibition until July 28 at 17 Mackay Street in Richmond Hill. The exhibition consists of pictures and audio testimony… July 19, 2016