The Feather Market Organ Society invites all music lovers to its first lunch-hour organ recital of 2018 on the grand organ of the Feather Market Centre on Thursday, February 8 at 1pm. Renowned Pretoria organist Professor Theo van Wyk, who holds a doctor’s degree in organ performance and has given organ recitals all over the world, will play. The programme of 50 minutes will include well-known works such as Bach’s Toccata and Fugue in D minor – probably the most popular organ work ever written, as well as other romantic pieces for which the Feather Market organ is particularly well suited. Admission is only R35 and R30 for pensioners. Entrance free for pupils and students. The Feather Market Organ Society is also inviting music lovers to join it this year. “This year we will once again present an exciting and varied concert series of no fewer than 10 presentations,” said Prof Albert Troskie on behalf of the organisation. Membership fees for 2018: R160 (pensioners single), R 235 (pensioners – husband and wife), R 225 (single member), R350 (husband and wife), R40 pupils and students. For more information and an affiliation form, or to find out more about the concert, contact Troskie on 082-726-9595, (041) 503-7854 or e-mail: a.troskie@telkomsa.net. THE Feather Market Organ Society will present its annual, highly popular Christmas concert at the Feather Market Centre in Port Elizabeth at 1pm tomorrow. The centre's grand organ will be played by organists Devandré Boonzaaier, Johan van Eck, Liesel Murphy and Romano Jonathan. The soprano and guitar duet of Jill… December 9, 2014 The Feather Market Organ Society invites all music lovers to a lunch-hour organ recital on the grand organ of the Feather Market Centre on Thursday, September 21 by renowned Cape Town organist Eric Spencer. Spencer is well-known in Port Elizabeth as he was director of music and organist at St… September 21, 2017 THE Feather Market Organ Society presents its annual Christmas concert tomorrow at 1pm with a 75-minute programme of seasonal music. “This is a great opportunity for all local music lovers and holiday visitors to enjoy a varied selection of beautiful Christmas music, it is always a pleasant family concert with… December 8, 2015