Several of my letters relating to the lack of spectators at Kings PRO14 games have been published. I have lamented the lack of marketing in terms of who the Kings opponents will be so as to inform rugby supporters that they can see British and Irish Lions players, Scottish, Irish and Welsh internationals, and even South Africans who have relocated overseas. I wrote about my friends’ and my terrible experience at the last game, with one kiosk being open for beer, and one for snacks and cold drinks, and the resultant queues as a result of poor planning. This is not to mention the exorbitant price of beers (R30) and simple water (R15 for 500ml). It certainly does not help that the Kings have not won a match in the PRO14 yet, but I remain positive that at some stage they will and I want to be at the stadium when they do. So how to get me and thousands others to the stadium? How about curtain-raisers? A friend, Laurie Stone, made this suggestion: How about the stadium gets some of the well-known rugby schools in and around Port Elizabeth to stage their games at the stadium as curtain-raisers to the Kings matches? After all, thousands attend Grey’s first team matches, for example. Here’s a scenario. Grey first team play against a top school at the stadium. The rugby players will certainly enjoy the occasion and the parents will support, as will the rest of the school pupils themselves. Suddenly an influx of several thousand spectators. Add to this a top U15 clash prior to the first team match. Which pupil and parent would not want to be part of this experience? Don’t charge the pupils and their parents an entrance fee. Lower the refreshment prices, increase the number of kiosks open, cater with hot dogs and hamburgers, and a lot more refreshments will be sold to a lot more people. Have a beer garden with entertainment. In other words, make the Kings’ match a rugby day for tens of thousands to enjoy. I know I would. Gordon Upton, Port Elizabeth Ulster will be missing powerful Springbok loose forward Jean Deysel and six Irish internationals when they face the Southern Kings in a PRO14 showdown at Kwazakhele’s Wolfson Stadium on Saturday. Apart from Deysel, Ulster will also be without their inspirational skipper Rory Best and five other players who have linked… November 1, 2017 Prices cut to draw crowds as team make bid for first win The move to Kwazakhele’s Wolfson Stadium could prove to be a masterstroke by the Southern Kings brains trust as they bid to inject extra fizz into PRO14 rugby. After seven consecutive defeats, the Kings are desperate for the… November 5, 2017 Southern Kings playmaker Kurt Coleman says European PRO14 rugby has a taught him to vary his game and adapt to life in a tough new league where the No 10 and forward packs have vital roles to play. Coleman, a veteran of 41 matches for the Stormers and 64 games… December 2, 2017