Two men believed to be leaders of the Seven Angels Ministries Church‚ which is at the centre of the death of 13 people this past week‚ have handed themselves over to the Ngcobo police where one of them was arrested on the spot. Eastern Cape provincial Hawks spokesperson Captain Anelisa Feni said one of the two suspects was not charged and was released. “We can confirm that they handed themselves over yesterday but only one has been released while the other one has been arrested.” Feni said another suspect was arrested by the police task team on Sunday. This brings the number of suspects nabbed in connection with the murder of five policemen and a soldier to 12. Eastern Cape provincial police spokesman Khaya Tonjeni confirmed that 12 suspects would appear in court on Monday on charges of murder‚ attempted murder and illegal possession of weapons and ammunition. In the early hours of Wednesday morning‚ five policemen were killed when gunmen stormed the Ngcobo police station and opened fire and stole 10 firearms. The police retaliated 65 hours later by killing seven suspects linked to the police mass murder and recovered the weapons. The court appearance has been set for 2pm on Monday at the Ngcobo Magistrate’s Court. Media houses have applied for permission to use cameras inside the court and carry live broadcasts from the court. National Prosecuting Authority spokesman Luxolo Tyali also confirmed on Monday morning that the NPA officials were also busy sorting out charge sheets and dockets of the suspects‚ resulting in the delay. – DispatchLIVE The net is closing in on suspects involved in Wednesday’s mass killing of police officers at the Ngcobo police station, with the police saying they are following strong leads. The national team tasked with tracking down the Ngcobo police station killers brought several men in for questioning today after they allegedly… February 22, 2018 Arrests after bodies of murdered suspects found in field FOR years, two experienced Gauteng detectives operated with impunity – allegedly coercing confessions through beatings, mock executions and now suspected murder. The rogue Springs detectives – one of whom is behind bars with two police informers – modelled themselves on the… May 6, 2015 A suspect wanted in connection with a murder in Centane in the Eastern Cape nearly four years ago has been arrested in Cape Town. The 23-year-old allegedly killed Hlebo Mchumane, 34, of Zidenge Locality, Mnyameni Village, Centane on the morning of August 4, 2012. “The suspect demanded tobacco from the… June 17, 2016