ANC to finalise matter at meeting – Ramaphosa ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa yesterday gave the clearest indication yet that Jacob Zuma’s future as head of state could be resolved today. The uncertainty around President Zuma’s fate has left the country in limbo with opposition parties, alliance partners and some in the ANC calling for his removal. Speaking at the Grand Parade in Cape Town to officially launch the centennial celebration in honour of former president Nelson Mandela, Ramaphosa said the country wanted closure on this matter. “As the leadership of the African National Congress we are engaged in discussions around the transition . . . and specifically the position of the president of the republic,” Ramaphosa said. “The NEC [national executive committee] will be meeting tomorrow [Monday] to discuss and finalise this matter. “We know you want this matter to be finalised. We know you want closure on this matter. “We will finalise this matter, keeping our eyes on what is in the interests of all our people.” He said a successful resolution would have significant consequences for the country and the ANC. “It is therefore important that we manage the discussions with care and purpose, ensuring that we place the interests of the South African people first. “The key objective is uniting our people. If you look at the way in which Mandela handled challenges in his presidency, he was always very careful. “He put the interests of our people first and he was clear about uniting South Africans and the ANC.” Yesterday marked 28 years to the day since Mandela was released from prison in 1990 after spending 27 years in jail. Ramaphosa and Zuma met over the weekend to thrash out the “transition” from a Zuma presidency. On Saturday, the party’s top six leaders met into the night. Details of the meetings have not been revealed. Today’s NEC meeting is scheduled to take place from 2pm at St George’s Hotel outside Pretoria. According to sources and political observers, two possible scenarios could unfold at the meeting. The first is that the party leadership will be briefing the committee on a possible agreement between Ramaphosa and Zuma. The second could be a possible debate and recall of Zuma if the two did not agree on Zuma’s exit. Sources yesterday said that Zuma was poised to resign and that today’s meeting was aimed at confirming Ramaphosa as the new head of state and selecting his deputy. “He has agreed to resign, the meeting tomorrow is to confirm Cyril and his deputy,” the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said yesterday. Another said it was common cause that Zuma had agreed to resign, and it was just a matter of working out the details. Insiders say Zuma is likely to leave the Union Buildings by today or the end of the week at the latest. Last week, a similar meeting, meant to recall Zuma, was cancelled at the 11th hour, with Ramaphosa indicating that his discussions with Zuma had been constructive. Over the weekend, the Zuma family apologised for a social media post by first lady Thobeka Madiba-Zuma, in which she hinted Zuma was not going anywhere and said he would “finish what he started”. Meanwhile, a group of ANC and SACP members plan to march to the Union Buildings today and have vowed not to leave until Zuma resigns. At a media conference in Pretoria yesterday, ANC Gauteng member Hangwi Maumela announced a “national shutdown” today and encouraged South Africans not to go to work in solidarity. However, ANC Johannesburg regional spokesman Jolidee Matongo distanced the party from Maumela and the shutdown. ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa has announced that a decision on President Jacob Zuma’s fate as president of the republic would come in the next few days “once we have finalised all pertinent matters”. In a statement released on Wednesday‚ Ramaphosa confirmed that he met with Zuma on Tuesday evening to… February 7, 2018 ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa is racing against time to ensure President Jacob Zuma’s resignation, with “pertinent matters” still under discussion. Several senior ANC sources expect Zuma could vacate his office by the end of this week, with a postponed state of the nation address and the annual budget address hanging… February 8, 2018 Whatever decision ANC takes, president will not be humiliated, says Ramaphosa The issue of recalling President Jacob Zuma is a delicate matter, newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said in a television broadcast at the weekend. He told broadcaster eNCA that whatever decision the party’s newly elected national executive committee… January 15, 2018