The five policemen killed in an execution style attack on a police station in Ngcobo in the Eastern Cape have been identified. Police on Thursday released pictures of the five officers, some of them in their police uniform. Warrant officer Zikho Mbini, 45; Constable Sibongiseni Sandlana, 32; Constable Nkosiphendule Ponco, 32; Constable Kuhle Mathetha, 27 and Constable Zuko Ntsheku, 38 were killed on Wednesday after unknown gunmen opened fire at the police station in what is believed to be the deadliest of its kind in South Africa. The gunmen stormed the police station and opened fire, killing three officers. They then separated women police officers from the men. After robbing the station of six pistols, two shotguns and two assault rifles, they killed a retired soldier. Thereafter, they hijacked a police car with two officers in it. The officers were shot dead execution-style and their bodies dumped near Nyanga High School, about 6km from the station. Before attacking the police station, the gunmen had bombed an ATM in the town. These are the police members who died during the attack:      The net is closing in on suspects involved in Wednesday’s mass killing of police officers at the Ngcobo police station, with the police saying they are following strong leads. The national team tasked with tracking down the Ngcobo police station killers brought several men in for questioning today after they allegedly… February 22, 2018 The slaughter of five police officers and a retired soldier in Ngcobo yesterday morning was the second attack on the police station in less than a year. Police believe the gang that carried out yesterday’s deadly attack could be the same one that struck in March last year. But unlike… February 22, 2018 The attack by robbers on the Ngcobo police station is not the first. In March last year‚ a Hollywood-style stick-up took place just after midnight in the town when an estimated 15 armed robbers drilled their way into a Standard Bank and shot at police‚ the police station and houses… February 22, 2018