An elderly Port Elizabeth couple was attacked and robbed by two men armed with a panga and an iron rod in their home on Monday (05/02/2018). This was the second attack on an elderly couple in the Seaview/Colleen Glen area in less than 24 hours. According to police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu, the 74-year-old man was busy outside his house at about 8:30pm when the two suspects appeared. “The man was threatened and taken inside the house.” “The suspects assaulted him and his wife (70) with a panga.” “Jewellery, a cell phone and a firearm were taken,” Naidu said. The couple was taken to hospital for treatment. In a separate incident in the early hours of Monday morning, an elderly couple was robbed inside their Seestrand Way home in Beachview. Police are advising elderly persons to become more security conscious as they are “more vulnerable to attacks and are easy targets for criminals.” “Criminal attacks perpetrated against the elderly is a concern and police will be embarking on social crime prevention initiatives to educate and empower the elderly/senior citizens against crime,” Naidu added. Police are investigating a case of house robbery after an elderly Walmer couple were robbed and beaten early yesterday morning. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the couple were asleep in their Fourth Avenue home when they were woken up by two unknown men, who had entered their house after… December 18, 2017 An elderly Summerstrand man and his son wrestled with three suspects they disturbed after the armed men allegedly entered a Rubin Crescent house yesterday. Police said the 70-year old man and his 68-year old wife – who they are not identifying – had just returned to the house where their… January 15, 2015 An elderly couple was robbed inside their Seestrand Way home in Beachview on Monday morning (05/02/2018). According to police, the robbery took place shortly after midnight. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said that while the couple were unharmed, they were shaken after the robbery. “It is alleged that on Monday… February 5, 2018