A third VW Polo stolen from a Greenbushes depot over the weekend has been recovered. The latest recovery was on Tuesday morning (12/02/2018) when one of the Polos was found in front of a house in Mahambehlala Street in Kwazakhele. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said that at about 12:20am a member of the community contacted police when he saw the vehicle abandoned in the street. “The driver’s side window was broken, and the battery and key were missing.” Naidu said that no arrests have yet been made. Earlier on Monday, police found two Polos hidden in a garage in Nconco Street in Kwazakhele. Naidu confirmed that one VW Polo was still missing. The four cars – worth about R1.3-million – were stolen from the depot in Greenbushes on Friday night. A fifth car, a Volkwagen Caddy, also initially thought to have been stolen, was found on the premises. “All the cars have been impounded and our forensic experts are going through them to gather evidence,” she said.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Two of the cars stolen from a Greenbushes depot on Friday have been found inside a residential garage in Kwazakhele. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said the cars – Volkswagen Polos – were found locked inside a garage in Nconco Street at about 10am on Monday following an anonymous tip-off.… February 12, 2018 A robbery at a car depot in Greenbushes on Friday and heightened community speculation about suspected gangsters ultimately triggered a wave of panic and turmoil in KwaNobuhle at the weekend. Volkswagen vehicles worth about R1.3-million were stolen from the depot on Friday night, police said yesterday. Hours later rumours surfaced… February 12, 2018 Port Elizabeth police have recovered three vehicles that were either stolen or hijacked since Wednesday. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said two of the vehicles – a stolen Isuzu bakkie and hijacked Volkswagen Polo – were recovered just 30 minutes apart on Thursday morning by the Flying Squad’s warrant officers… November 9, 2017