President Jacob Zuma has given an undertaking to respond to a formal decision by the ANC’s national executive committee to recall him from office‚ but Zuma is expected to put up a fight. A source close to the discussions said Zuma’s response is likely to be “controversial”‚ while another added that he will not go quietly. This was after Zuma last night dug in his heels as he rejected a plea by ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa to resign from office. Zuma said that he would respond in public to an official decision taken by the NEC‚ which should be communicated to him through a formal process‚ sources said. At the time of the meeting‚ there was no firm decision that Zuma should be booted out – only a majority view that he should be recalled. One source said Ramaphosa personally pleaded with Zuma to leave office but he responded “in no uncertain terms” that he will not resign. ANC leaders believe that his demeanour last night showed a man who is not ready to relinquish power. Once Ramaphosa and ANC secretary general Ace Magashule returned to the NEC‚ a debate over a final decision on Zuma’s fate ensued and the decision to recall him was taken around 2 am on Tuesday morning. The meeting undertook to write to Zuma to formally communicate the outcome to him. Magashule is due to brief the media to give a formal update at noon on Tuesday.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  President Jacob Zuma will resign as soon as a list of preconditions has been finalised, in a deal struck on Tuesday afternoon between Zuma and ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa and confirmed by sources on Tuesday night. The deal led to the postponement of an ANC national executive committee (NEC)… February 7, 2018 Whatever decision ANC takes, president will not be humiliated, says Ramaphosa The issue of recalling President Jacob Zuma is a delicate matter, newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said in a television broadcast at the weekend. He told broadcaster eNCA that whatever decision the party’s newly elected national executive committee… January 15, 2018 The ANC’s national executive committee has decided to recall President Jacob Zuma as head of state‚ with no deal and an ultimatum. The final decision was taken after a 13-hour marathon meeting that lasted into the early hours of Tuesday and was due to be formally communicated to him in… February 13, 2018