More than 200 pupils were treated and discharged on Thursday morning after they were hospitalised with symptoms of food poisoning in Ngqeleni in the Eastern Cape. The 250 pupils are from Ndamase Senior Secondary School in the area. Eastern Cape health spokesperson Sizwe Kupelo said the learners had symptoms such as vomiting‚ stomach cramps and headaches. “At the moment an ambulance has responded to yet another call at the school. We are not sure if they are attending to new ones or the same learners who were discharged this morning‚” said Kupelo on Thursday morning. He said the learners were admitted at three hospitals before discharge: Mthatha Regional Hospital‚ Nelson Mandela Academic Hospital and St Barnabas Hospital. This was not the only incident in recent times. Early this month more than 50 adults and children who ate the meat of a dead cow were rushed to various hospitals in the province. In October last year 200 children from Mlindazwe junior secondary school in Mbizana‚ in the Eastern Cape were kept overnight at hospital for observation due to alleged food poisoning. EASTERN Cape health authorities are testing chocolates sold by a school vendor after nearly 50 pupils at Peddie’s Nathaniel Pamla High School were treated for vomiting and runny tummies last week. About 48 pupils were taken to nearby Nompumelelo Hospital, where they were treated for stomach-related symptoms on Friday after… February 24, 2015 Chilli-flavoured chicken and rice is suspected of causing 200 pupils to be struck down with runny stomachs, headaches and vomiting in Bizana yesterday. Activities at Mlindazwe Junior Secondary came to a sudden chaotic stop at 9am yesterday as illness – and hysteria – broke out among children from Grade R… October 27, 2017 Four school children have died in a bus accident in the Eastern Cape. Health department spokesman Sizwe Kupelo said three boys succumbed to their injuries after being transported to hospital. One died at the scene of the accident when a bus ferrying the pupils to school overturned in Mdumbi village… October 23, 2017