The beleaguered Algoa Bay Yacht Club is set to apply in the Port Elizabeth High Court today for an interdict to prevent Transnet from kicking it out of the harbour by month end. The Transnet National Ports Authority’s (TNPA) Port of Port Elizabeth has given the club until February 28 to vacate the buildings housing its popular restaurant and bar. Port manager Rajesh Dana said the eviction was in line with TNPA’s lease management policy and the port had to comply with stringent governance processes. TNPA spokeswoman Margorie Makama said yesterday it would oppose the application. She said the tender process initiated for another restaurant in September was at an advanced stage. “The premises will be used for a restaurant and bar with the potential to support the yacht and boating community.” The ongoing battle between the club and Transnet saw an urgent draft order granted by the high court in August, allowing the club to stay in the harbour for six months, after which it could operate on a month-to-month basis if no suitable tenant was found. The six months end on Wednesday. Club commodore and chairman Alan Straton said Transnet had gone back on its word and that “we need at least two months to sort things out.” The dispute arose when Transnet claimed the club owed nearly R2-million in overdue rent. Eviction order for tourism hotspot   Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  While the controversial eviction of the Algoa Bay Yacht Club from its prominent spot in the Port of Port Elizabeth is still being considered by the national Ports Regulator, Transnet has put out a tender notice for the premises – calling for applicants to establish a restaurant and bar on… September 9, 2017 Yacht club restaurant given until month-end to pack up and leave After a protracted legal battle, the Algoa Bay Yacht Club’s restaurant and bar has been served with an eviction notice – but the battle for the prime tourism hotspot is far from over, according to the club. Yacht club… February 19, 2018 Rochelle de Kock dekockr@timesmedia.co.za THE Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA) has received a R3.8-million boost from the Eastern Cape Development Corporation to develop a master plan for a marina in the Port Elizabeth Harbour. A request for proposals will be issued before March for a company to conduct market research… January 31, 2014