 Police are investigating a case of culpable homicide after a 48-year-old man died this afternoon following a collision between a BMW and minibus Taxi in Stanford Road earlier today. Eugene Draghoender died in hospital several hours after the accident which happened across the road from Livingstone Hospital at the Stanford Road and Thorogood Street intersection in Korsten. According to police, traffic officials had taken control of the scene but when Draghoender died in hospital, the case was transferred to police. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said that it is alleged that a minibus taxi had collided into the driver’s side of the car at the intersection. Draghoender, who was driving the BMW travelling on Stanford Road, was rushed to hospital in a critical condition from the scene. The taxi driver had slight injuries and was also taken to hospital. “Our accident response scene experts will visit the scene at a later stage and by using photograph and statements from witnesses, reconstruct the scene to assist detectives,” she said. Asked why the driver of the taxi minibus was not arrested, Naidu said that the detectives would first investigate the cause of the accident. A case of culpable homicide as well as reckless and negligent driving is being investigated. Both the taxi and BMW had no passengers at the time of the crash. Six children, taxi driver among East Cape victims IN a black weekend on Eastern Cape roads, 16 people – including six schoolchildren – died and scores were injured, mostly in head-on collisions. Warrant Officer Alwin Labans said in the most serious of the Bay accidents, police were investigating three cases… March 7, 2016 At least 10 people were killed when a minibus taxi collided head on with a truck on the R63 between Komga and Bhisho on Sunday afternoon (05/03/17). The driver of the taxi and that of the truck are among those who died at the scene. Eastern Cape health spokesman Sizwe… March 5, 2017 A case of culpable homicide is being investigated following an accident along the R72 near Port Alfred on Friday morning (24/06/16). Police spokesman Captain Luvuyo Mjekula said police were called to the scene – about 10km out of Port Alfred going towards Kenton-on-Sea – at about 5am. “On arrival they… June 24, 2016