Premier’s departure no longer a matter of if, but when, says political analyst Eastern Cape premier Phumulo Masualle’s imminent recall from the province’s top job will likely be welcomed by many. This is according to political analyst professor Somadoda Fikeni, who believes Masualle’s early departure from the premiership is no longer a matter of if, but when. Fikeni believes the people of the province long for change, and that Masualle’s fence-sitting style of leadership had exacerbated a negative atmosphere between him and the ANC provincial executive, which reportedly wants him out. He believes the axe over Masualle’s head would have fallen long ago had the ANC national executive not had its hands full with urgent national matters like recalling Jacob Zuma as president, to deal with premiers’ recalls. The analyst believes the national executive’s silence on Masualle’s future was more of a strategic approach to avoid its own overload, but with Zuma’s recall now out of the way, that of his provincial counterpart is now imminent. “The ANC national executive would not have recalled the president of the country and go for a premier at the same time because they have had a lot of weighty issues on their table, but one thing is for sure – we all can see that change is coming in the Eastern Cape,” Fikeni said. The Oscar Mabuyane-led provincial executive’s submission to the national executive for Masualle’s departure would be strengthened by its support of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s presidential bid before the Nasrec conference. The SACP, of which Masualle is a central committee member, had taken a hard line against Zuma, but Masualle was silent on the topic. Also, the provincial executive was now more decisive than when it was led by the cautious, “let me not offend anyone” Masualle. “Remember, the Eastern Cape was the largest province that was firmly behind the CR17 campaign while other big provinces, like Mpumalanga and KwaZulu-Natal, were divided. “So the provincial executive may want to use that as leverage to demand things.” Fikeni said. Those wanting him to go, the professor said, could rightfully point to his cautious approach to issues and his failure to take decisive action when necessary. Those opposing it might stand for stability. “But what does stability mean when some say there was stability? “That stability has been stagnant and the people of the Eastern Cape may want to try new things. “During his tenure there was an outcry about officials not performing but nothing happened to them.” Fikeni cited the dismal matric pass rate, still the lowest in the country, and the Eastern Cape remaining the poorest province and an area of stagnation. Fikeni believes Masualle started falling out of favour when many decried his cautious leadership style as both premier and ANC provincial chairman before last year’s provincial conference, which picked Mabuyane to take over. He says this might have led to the Eastern Cape’s fall from grace as a commanding voice in politics at national level despite its rich history as an influential bloc that other provinces have looked to for guidance in the past. “Since the change of leadership after the ANC provincial conference last year, you could suddenly hear in specific language what the province wanted on several issues, including at national level, which is the Eastern Cape that people know,” he said. ANC provincial secretary Lulama Ngcukayitobi could not be reached for comment yesterday. However, as previously reported, a special provincial executive meeting was to have been held last week to decide Masualle’s fate, but was shelved indefinitely. This could be because the matter had not yet been discussed by the national executive. Senior SACP leaders in the Eastern Cape have dumped premier Phumulo Masualle in favour of ANC provincial secretary Oscar Mabuyane as the next ANC provincial chairman. This is significant because Masualle is a senior leader of the SACP and also sits on its central committee. This comes as the race… February 6, 2017 Party statement lambasts MEC for ‘sabotaging’ activism event Deep divisions between the Eastern Cape ANC and Bhisho have spilt into the open with less than three weeks to go before the national elective conference. The party in the province gave Social Development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi a public dressing down yesterday,… November 28, 2017 The future of Eastern Cape premier Phumulo Masualle hangs in the balance as the party in the province gears up to reshuffle the provincial cabinet. On Monday next week‚ the party’s provincial executive committee (PEC) will be meeting, and it is expected that Masualle’s future will feature prominently in the… February 17, 2018