 Walmer couple Allison Kellet and David McGillivray were married in April last year at The Base, Oxygen Life Church. Allison: On the beach, under a sunset our eyes locked . . . jokes, we met each other at Oxygen Life Church and got to know each other more while leading youth together. Allison: Yes, we are almost a year into our first marriage. We don’t have children yet, but are trusting God’s timing to lead us in when to adopt or have our own naturally. Allison: I am head chef at Savages Fine Food in Park Drive. David: I am a children’s and youth pastor at Oxygen Life Church. Allison: His passion for the church and seeing God change people’s lives. David: Her heart for Jesus and deep love for people. Allison: His deep inner man desire to grow a wild messy beard that smells a little like goat’s cheese! David: When she steals the blanket and leaves half-drunk cups of coffee next to the bed. Allison: Once I know and have encountered the love of God for myself it allows me to overflow in an authentic love for Dave. David: I believe God needs to be at the very centre. When God is first, I learn to say no to my own selfish desires and put Ally’s needs before mine. Allison: Learning to consider Dave by bringing him into my thoughts in day-to-day life decisions. David: Learning how to balance different areas of my life and marriage while continuing to grow in intimacy. Allison: Don’t get so caught up in life that you forget to appreciate the things right in front of you. David: Over the last few months of being married, I have come to understand the beauty of intimacy and realise that true intimacy is first found in our relationship with Jesus.  Boknesstrand couple Brittney Sullivan and Nicholas van de Water married in June last year at Nooitgedacht farm. A: We met while Brittney was in the Eastern Cape doing TB research to complete her PhD. Brittney and a friend were out for dinner at Stanley’s Restaurant in Kenton-on-Sea while Nick was there with some friends. We started chatting . . . and now we’re married! A: This is our first marriage and we were thrilled to welcome our baby boy, Connor, into the world this year. Brittney: I’m a global health and tuberculosis researcher at Harvard Medical School in Boston in the US. Most of my research takes place in South Africa and Peru. Nicholas: I’m a logistics and supply chain manager in sub-Saharan Africa for an oil and gas company. Brittney: I love how kind and affectionate Nick is. He is a great listener and is always around to give me a hug any time of the day. Nicholas: I love her tireless love and support, our conversations and being able to share our lives together. Brittney: Nick can be quite indecisive at times . . . making decisions as a team can be difficult at times, but we’re working on it! Nicholas: Haha! Britt can sometimes make commitments on our behalf without consulting me first. She keeps us up with a busy social calendar! Brittney: Having fun together and always remembering that we are playing for the same team, so although we might do things differently, we’re both doing everything we can to make the other person happy. Nicholas: Hard work, commitment, appreciation and respect. Brittney: Accepting so much change in a short amount of time. We remind each other to really enjoy all the amazing (and difficult) times as newlyweds and new parents. We’ve moved across oceans, planned two weddings, and welcomed a baby into our family all in a short amount of time. Nicholas: Living our lives across two continents and figuring out the logistics of being together and spending time in both places. A: Being married and sharing your life with someone is so special. Family is important to both of us, and now that we have a baby, family has never been more important as we raise our own!  Humewood Extension couple Chanelle Abdoll and Alistair Gilfillan were married in December last year at Chicky’s Yard. We had both been out of active social environments for some years and decided to explore online dating through Tinder. Only after we “swiped right” and met for coffee at Bocadillos in Sixth Avenue did we start finding out how small PE really is. Chanelle: I am a receptionist at Bliss Hair and Skincare Salon in Walmer. Alistair: I teach English online as a second language to Chinese students through MPC Connect. Alistair: Neither of us has been married before nor do we have any children yet. Chanelle: I love the way in which he was raised. Because of his deeply instilled morals and values, he treats me like the queen he has convinced me to believe I am. Alistair is a gentleman in the truest form. He was worth the wait, and more. Alistair: Chanelle has an incredible strength to overcome any adversity and completely fills that empty space in my life perfectly created for her. She enjoys my quirks and she is my best friend. Chanelle: Alistair has a weird habit of always taking the “scenic” route when driving. He particularly favours driving through Walmer, no matter the destination. Alistair: Chanelle doesn’t like silence. There always needs to be music or background TV. Chanelle: I like to think that in our marriage and learning to live with and around each other, we have learnt to communicate with love and not argue with pride. Above all else, we are friends first. Alistair: Chanelle is my best friend and I trust her in love, so we can talk about anything and do anything together. Chanelle: My stubbornness: learning that any kind of constructive advice and conversation comes from a place of love and not hurt. Alistair: Learning to talk about what I think and that listening does not always mean responding to everything that is said. Chanelle: For the longest time I didn’t think I would ever find my forever person. Lo and behold, he was around the corner for most of my life. Alistair: God has sent me a perfect partner and lover in Chanelle. My future is exciting and challenging with her by my side. I don’t have to wonder why or how Chanelle loves me, I just know she does.  Springdale couple Danyaal Ortell and Nurudeen Nieftagodien were married in December last year at the Adante wedding and conference venue. Danyaal: We met through mutual friends when we were a lot younger. I was 13 and he was 17. We dated before and he moved away but a few years later our paths crossed again. We realised that we were always meant to be together, it just needed to be the right time. Danyaal: I am a qualified maths and science teacher at Malabar Primary School and a psychology student at Nelson Mandela University. Nurudeen: I am a qualified civil engineer at Africoast Consulting Engineers and a BTech civil engineering student at Nelson Mandela University. A: Yes, this is the first marriage for both of us and we don’t have any kids yet. Danyaal: I love how perfect he is. His “bad dad” jokes are everything and he is an absolute gentleman. Nurudeen: She’s so caring and always looks after me. Danyaal: He loves to prove that he is always right. He basically draws up a thesis as to why he is right but I absolutely adore our conversations; it’s never boring! Nurudeen: Her hair is everywhere! Danyaal: I really believe communication is important for a happy marriage – it’s so much easier when you can talk things out. Compassion for one another, helping one another grow and motivating each other to be their best. Not making big deals out of small things and just loving each other unconditionally. Nurudeen: Always putting your spouse first, above all the problems and challenges you might face together. Always remembering that their happiness and the marriage is more important than any obstacle they face. Danyaal: Trying to cut down on constantly eating when we are together because we are always together! Nurudeen: Trying not to get fat! A: None.  Korsten couple Faaria Carloo and Mohamed Seraj Valley-Ahmed tied the knot in July last year at Masjid Mansoor (Nikkah and ceremony) and at the Tramways Building (reception). Faaria: We met a year and a half ago at my monthly Reach for a Dream meeting at Protea Marine Hotel in Summerstrand while he was on a cold room breakdown at the hotel. When walking towards the foyer, this handsome man walked past and asked to be pointed to the men’s room and I directed him. When I walked to my car, he was standing outside his, parked next to mine, where he made conversation with me. After that we became friends but not for too long! Faaria: Among other things, I am employed as a transaction execution consultant at Tecstream. Mohamed: I am a refrigeration technician. A: Yes, this is our first marriage and we have no kids. Faaria: His protective nature and ability to get along with anybody and everybody from all walks of life. His heart is pure. He’ll do anything for me, like go to SPAR with one slipper and one flip-flop! He adds texture to any situation. Mohamed: Her limitless willingness to help others. Faaria: If we’re talking aesthetically here, he’s a pleasing landscape. He does, however, have an automatic frown that, in my opinion, is not the worst ever, but I would just prefer his smile! Mohamed: When I find out what that would be, I’ll let you know. Faaria: Pray together, stay together, respect, humour – and lots of it – as well as peanut butter! Mohamed: Love, trust, communication and most of all, God. Faaria: Surrendering. Things can be done in any way – not just my way. Mohamed: Adjusting from just looking after myself to looking after myself and someone else who means the world to me. Mohamed: There isn’t a day that goes by that I don’t thank the Almighty for allowing me to meet my wife. She is an unbelievable lady; the best ever. Always be grateful for those special people in your life.  Bethelsdorp couple Lauren Adams and Warren Manuel were married in April last year at the Grand Hotel. A: We met through mutual friends. Lauren: I am a civil engineering technologist at Mott Macdonald. Warren: I am a logistics controller at SPAR Eastern Cape. A: Yes, this is our first marriage and we recently had our baby boy. Lauren: Every day I feel like the most important person in his world. Warren: Lauren loves to do things with me. She supports my hobbies and she learns how to make any food that I enjoy. Lauren: Probably communication, but he’s getting there! Warren: Her indecisive nature. Lauren: Good, constructive communication, sacrifice, compromise, an open mind, saying sorry, effort, time and genuine love. Warren: A good dosage of love, friendship and romance. Lauren: Deciding what to cook! Warren: Balancing time between work, your spouse and family. Lauren: Not everything you do has to be perfectly calculated. There is so much fun and adventure in spontaneity. When you know, you know. Warren: After our first conversation I knew she was what I had waited for.  Walmer couple Leoni Erasmus and Daneel Claassen married in April last year at the Lombardini game farm outside Jeffreys Bay. A: We met at the gym. Leoni: I’m in marketing. Daneel: I’m a civil engineer. A: Yes, this is our first marriage and no, we don’t have any kids – only a pug and Pomeranian which we consider our kids! Leoni: I love that my husband will always take me into consideration before he makes any decisions. I also admire his dedication to anything he gets involved with. Daneel: The fact that she is my best friend and that we can do everything together. Leoni: He has a bad habit of fidgeting when we are watching TV. Daneel: She is very impatient. Leoni: I would say respect and communication. It is very important never to lose respect for your partner, and to communicate about anything and everything. Don’t keep things bottled up: If something is wrong, address the problem and carry on. This will definitely help clear the air and keep a positive energy between a couple. Daneel: An admiration of positive qualities such as honesty, generosity, decency, loyalty and fairness. Leoni: Living together and getting used to one another’s habits. Daneel: New opportunities and purchases must be evaluated with both partners in mind. Leoni: Find a hobby that you both enjoy and do it together on a regular basis. Daneel: My wife is my life, she is my rock and I am so grateful that I found the woman of my dreams so early in life.  Kensington couple Merlin du Preez and Louis Simon were married in April last year at Bushbuck Ridge Game Farm. Merlin: My step-sister introduced us. Back then we still had Mxit and she thought it was a good idea for the two of us to start chatting. We communicated via Mxit and e-mail for a while, and agreed that we needed to go on a date. We got on like a house on fire! We had so much chemistry and really enjoyed being around each other. We’ve been inseparable since that first date. Merlin: I’m an executive personal assistant. Louis: I’m a development engineer. A: Yes, this is our first marriage and we have no kids.We are definitely looking forward to parenthood. Merlin: Louis is such a good and humble person. He was raised well, by two amazing parents. One of the things I love and admire about my husband is his patience. Whether it be dealing with people, with me or dealing with particular situations, he exudes patience and often reminds me to practice patience too, no matter the situation. Louis: My wife has a loving and kind heart, and is always willing to help and go the extra mile. Merlin: Of course there will be little irritations, from both sides, but what would marriage, or any relationship, be without it? Louis: I don’t know if I can call this a “worst feature”, but my wife gets freaked out by insects, flying insects in particular. We both get a good laugh out of it afterwards. Merlin: “But the greatest of these is Love.” Marriage no doubt requires love, but it also requires us to be and stay in love with our partners. We need to choose our partners not just today, but every day, over and over again. Respect is also very important; so is loyalty and commitment, prayer (especially praying together) and communication. Louis: There are many factors, but an important one is definitely making decisions together and always consulting your spouse. Merlin: Being newly married is such an exciting time. It’s been said you only truly get to know someone once you’re living with them. This is something we both looked forward to – and spending more time together, whether by doing something special or doing nothing at all and simply loving our new titles as husband and wife. We both agree, however, that completing our studies as newly-weds has been a bit of an emotional challenge. Studies require a lot of attention, but we know the sacrifice will be worth it in the end. A: The number 28 has a very special meaning. January 28 is the day we celebrate our courting anniversary and we knew our wedding day would be on the 28th day of a particular month. Infinity (8) soon became the theme of our relationship. The number 28 (2 and 8) reads “to infinity”.  New Brighton couple Nosinda Ndiwa and Lubabalo Majika tied the knot in May last year at the Anglican Cathedral in George. Lubabalo: We met outside my grandmother’s house in Kwazakhele while Nosinda was accompanying friends to a birthday party, so I ended up going to the party just to meet this beautiful, bubbly woman! Nosinda: I’m a switchboard operator at a legal firm. Lubabalo: I’m an entrepreneur and musician. Nosinda: Yes, this is our first marriage and we have a two-year-old son. Nosinda: He supports me, he cooks for me and has lots of time for me. We travel together, we are best friends and he gave me a loving first-born. Lubabalo: She’s caring and loving, and supports me in my music career and everything in between. Nosinda: My husband snores like it is nobody’s business. Lubabalo: My wife loves to sleep! Nosinda: Praying together, supporting each other, communication, respect, honesty and loving our families. Lubabalo: Support, honesty and being good friends. But never stop being lovers. Nosinda: It was when I was very ill two weeks before getting married. I thought I was dying and the thought of leaving my handsome husband-to-be, our beautiful boy and our loving families made me very scared. Lubabalo: The fear of imagining my life without my loving wife was a real challenge for me. Nosinda: Lubabalo is my best friend, he taught me not to stress about the things I couldn’t change in life. He is a great father to our boy and he is very special to me and my family. Lubabalo: Nosinda is a very special woman to me and my family. She has helped me overcome a lot of obstacles in my careers and she gave birth to a very handsome and loving boy who means the world to us.  Kabega Park couple Megan Adams and Eric Fisher tied the knot in September last year at Mater Dei Catholic Church, followed by a reception at the Roof Garden Bar. A: We met half way through our first year at university, in a very interesting dance class. Megan: I’m a qualified biokineticist working in private practice. Eric: I’m a qualified biokineticist working as a teacher and sports co-ordinator. A: Yes, this is our first marriage. No, we don’t have any children. Megan: I love how Eric motivates me to do things I never thought of ever doing. He encourages me to challenge myself in every aspect of life; he oozes positivity. Eric: I love Megan’s smile; it has the ability to get me through tough times, giving me strength when I need it the most. Megan: His inability to do the dishes! And yes, sometimes he is a little too competitive. Eric: Megan’s indecisiveness really makes me wonder; imagine spending 20 minutes deciding what sweets to buy! Megan: Never go to sleep angry. Talk and work through a situation as it arises. Eric: Being able to laugh with and at each other, as life is too short to be angry. Megan: It has been pretty easy, but juggling household tasks, work, sport and a social life was a big adjustment. Eric: “Adulting” is tough and dealing with all the responsibilities is a major task. A week may go by and you realise you haven’t done anything fun. So always try to make time to live!  Motherwell couple Tembakazi Nyati and Ludwe Konzana were married at the Little Slipperfields Farm in September last year. Tembakazi: We met at varsity [Nelson Mandela University] and apparently he had been eyeing me out without my knowledge. He did his research and finally gathered the courage to ask me out. Six years later, we tied the knot. Tembakazi: I’m a regional safety, health and environmental (SHE) officer. Ludwe: I’m a district sales representative. A: Yes, this is our first marriage. Ludwe has two sons but we have no kids together. Tembakazi: How he is always able to make me laugh . . . and his love for food! Ludwe: My wife is compassionate, loving and has an ambitious nature. Tembakazi: His constant whistling. We’ll be watching TV and he’ll start whistling out of the blue. Ludwe: Nothing beats her cold feet and her desire to always tuck them into me! Tembakazi: Allowing God to be present in your marriage. With that, all other components will fall into place. Ludwe: Love, trust and commitment. Tembakazi: For me it has to be being away from my husband, because I travel a lot in the job I’m in. A day without seeing him seems like an eternity (it’s cheesy, I know!). Ludwe: There have been no big challenges as yet. We’ve had a smooth transition. Marriage is beautiful. You get to spend the rest of your life with your best friend.  Motherwell couple Zingisa Sofoyiya and Mfundo Mabangula were married in her home village in Peddie in September last year and, in November, they had an official welcoming into the groom’s family at Tsomo. Zingisa: We first met in 2010. I was an intern at the Community Development Unit and he was working as a professional assistant at the Refugee Rights Centre. I think I overwhelmed him – I was talkative and bubbly – but I think it’s what he loved about me. We started dating in October 2011. Zingisa: I am a project manager at Nelson Mandela University. Mfundo: I am a legal advisor at the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. A: Yes, this is our first marriage and we have a lovely daughter. She is two years old. Her name is Sanelise and we adore her. Zingisa: He keeps me grounded. I love his intellect; the way he looks at situations. I can bring any problem his way and he will be able to offer me advice. He is protective of me as well. From day one he has been someone I could always lean on. Mfundo: She completes me. She has a number of good qualities I am lacking in and our personalities complement each other. We share most of the positive attributes like compassion for others, and a desire for positive change and development in our surroundings. She is also a very focused, career-driven woman. Zingisa: I am known to be very impulsive and he likes to think things through. He is also very careful about money and I like to spend it, but at times I appreciate this. Mfundo: Her levels of patience are minimal. Zingisa: Communication is crucial. Mfundo: Listening to each other and opening up space for your partner to be herself. Focusing on positive attributes encourages them to do their best. Zingisa: Makoti duties. Jokes! As a woman, when you are married, your whole life changes and you basically start over. I have a very supportive mother-in-law so I believe I will be just fine. Mfundo: We are both working and she has a lot of travelling in her work which unfortunately does take some of our time. Other than that we are enjoying life as a newly married couple and cherish every moment together. Mfundo: Marriage is give and take. You must be prepared to make some sacrifices. We are different for a reason and that’s what makes the world interesting. One lucky reader who has correctly voted for the winning bride and groom will win a prize package valued at over R4 500. NICOLE Luyt, 26, married Denver Barendse, 28, at La Colline Country Estate in January last year. Nicole is a customer service consultant for General Motors and Denver is a pharmacy manager for Correctional Services. How did you meet? Nicole: We met when I was 16 while attending a Friday evening… March 1, 2016 Neo Bodumela THE Idols journey ended in heartbreak for Nelson Mandela Bay singing sensation Melissa Allison last night when she was pipped to the title by Durban's Khaya Mthethwa. The atmosphere at the season eight finale was electric as a near 3000-strong crowd packed the Mosaiek Teatro in Johannesburg to… October 3, 2012 Absa man banked on middle name to find his braai beauty I BELIEVE it was the hand of the Lord right from the beginning that brought her to me, exclaimed Bill Darlow as he looked into his wife’s eyes ahead celebrating their 60th wedding anniversary tomorrow. Bill, 82, met Shirley… May 27, 2015