A new broom sweeps clean and congratulations to comrade Cyril Ramaphosa on being elected president of the Republic of South Africa. I just hope electing him to the position of state president will bring joy and happiness to the people of the country. I must be honest, I was one of the people rallying to his support, as I watched in dismay as the sequence of events was unfolding and I swallowed my words. I’m bitterly disappointed and felt betrayed by Jacob Zuma. He chased away all his loyal comrades and surrounded himself with corrupt and rotten-to-the-core vultures. I’m beginning to see now becoming the president of the ANC and the country is no child’ s play, it’s a mammoth task. I never ever in my entire life thought that two presidents of the ANC would not finish their terms of office and that means corruption got a better side of them all the time. I’m glad Ramaphosa is going into the office with his eyes wide open, he knows exactly what to do. All the problem areas were identified, and he needs to tackle those areas with the support of loyal and law-abiding comrades. People are becoming impatient with the ruling party and he needs to act very fast. There is no time for trial and error now, we have passed that stage a long time ago and we need to see fruitful results. The opposition parties are starting to change their tone now and they will try by all their means to distract the incoming president not to focus on his work. The only way to keep them quiet is to deliver to the people; empty promises and lies must be the thing of the past. The comrade Ramaphosa that I know is the comrade who once was a leader of the most powerful trade union in the country, the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM). He knows what to do, especially for the peasants. The ground is level for him to show us his moves and I am wishing him all the best in his office. Aluta continua. Mzwandile aka Pepe Nkomombini, community activist, Zwide, Port Elizabeth I EXTEND my warm words of gratitude to our new president, Cyril Ramaphosa, and my revolutionary greetings to the president. I am looking forward to his challenging role, and also highly confident that he will restore our dignity as a proud nation and also put our rainbow nation back on the map. All 56 million people in South Africa, as well as the world are looking upon South Africa, which Nelson Mandela fought for. I am confident that Ramaphosa will stamp his authority and grow our economy, and also put the interest of the people first and attract investment in our beautiful country.Rich Piyose, proud South African, Port Elizabeth  Deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa says he is unhappy with President Jacob Zuma's decision to reshuffle Cabinet‚ but says he will not resign. Ramaphosa said he was particularly opposed to the removal of former finance minister Pravin Gordhan. He said many colleagues shared his views. Ramaphosa said Zuma had not properly… March 31, 2017 Whatever decision ANC takes, president will not be humiliated, says Ramaphosa The issue of recalling President Jacob Zuma is a delicate matter, newly elected ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa said in a television broadcast at the weekend. He told broadcaster eNCA that whatever decision the party’s newly elected national executive committee… January 15, 2018 ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu has instructed all of the party’s 249 MPs to attend Thursday’s special sitting of the national assembly to elect a new president of the country. Mthembu said he had called “a three-line whip‚” which means no ANC MP is allowed to be absent‚ unless under… February 15, 2018