The municipality and police have lashed out at derelict building owners warning that they could lose their property if they failed to take action. This comes in the wake of several derelict buildings being raided in Central and Richmond Hill today. Four wanted suspects, including one wanted for rape, were arrested hiding inside the buildings while three building owners were fined R18 000 for illegal dumping. Authorities have since warned derelict building owners that they could face the full might of the law – possibly even lose their buildings. The municipality added that this clampdown on derelict buildings would ultimately boost with investor confidence as well as root out criminals. The raids are part of the national crime blitz, dubbed Operation Fiela Two, which was launched earlier this month. “Electricity at two of the buildings was disconnected and the electrical boxes were removed,” Cluster Commander Major General Thembisile Patekile said. Traffic offence fines to the value of R3500.00 were issued and Immigration found 15 undocumented foreigners during the operation. “These buildings are  being taken over by criminals and we need to evict them from these premises.  The objective of Operation Fiela is to maintain law, order, peace and security as well as reclaim the space occupied by criminals. These operations will continue until we have achieved our objective,” Patekile said.  Cops losing battle as drug dealers, criminals and squatters take over, reports Gareth Wilson and Riaan Marais. THE stench is discernable before you even enter the building. Once inside, drug paraphernalia, rats, broken electronics, smashed windows and litter greet you. These are the buildings in Central used as hideouts for criminals, prostitutes… January 25, 2016 A PROBLEM-buildings bylaw, which would give the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality more control over derelict buildings in the city, is being developed. Acting city manager Johann Mettler told councillors yesterday he had instructed officials to make the proposed bylaw public for residents to comment on. The news comes as the… February 17, 2016 WE work in the most beautiful restored building in Central called the old Grey Institute situated in Belmont Terrace next to the King Edward Hotel. This old building dates back to 1858. The building belongs to the Mediterranean Shipping Company. It took many years to restore this building to its… October 20, 2014