South African Airways will operate single daily flights from Johannesburg to London on a daily basis from April this year – replacing the double daily service operating on the United Kingdom route currently. “We have decided to focus on those areas of our business that will enhance our efficiencies‚ bring more value to our customers and produce improved overall performance of the airline. “Network optimisation is one such area that can contribute towards containing our costs and we introduced some initiatives that must yield dividends to return the business to commercial sustainability in the shortest time possible‚” SAA chief executive Vuyani Jarana said. The single flight takes effect from April 20. A new Airbus A330-300 aircraft will operate with effect from Sunday March 25. “This will afford customers a significantly improved on-board business and economy product‚ with state-of-the-art technology‚ increased comfort and capacity‚” Jarana said. SAA took delivery of five new A330-300 aircraft last year. The plane has capacity for 249 passengers‚ with 46 in business class and 203 in economy class. SAA said the A330-300s were quieter than previous-generation aircraft‚ were equipped with advanced avionics and navigation systems and had ultra-fuel-efficient engines‚ ensuring lower carbon emissions. Businesses object to plan to slash trips between PE and Joburg from four to two a day from next month In a blow to businesses in Nelson Mandela Bay, South African Airways has officially announced plans to slash half its flights between Johannesburg and Port Elizabeth from next month. Companies… September 29, 2017 While South African Airways (SAA) plans to reduce its flights to and from the Eastern Cape this month, other airlines have already stepped in to fill the void. SAA said last week it would be reducing flights between Johannesburg and Port Elizabeth from four to two return flights a day,… October 2, 2017 Just a week after South African Airways (SAA) slashed its flights to Port Elizabeth, another airline has stepped up to fill the gap. British Airways (BA), operated by Comair, added two daily flights between Port Elizabeth and Johannesburg to its roster yesterday. From October 29, SAA reduced its flights on… November 7, 2017