A 23-year-old Nelson Mandela University student from Botswana was stabbed in the chest during a daring robbery only meters from North Campus this evening (7/02/2018). The attack happened at about 6:15pm while the student was walking in University Way – on the outskirts of the Cape Recife High School. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naiud said that the NMU student was walking on the footpath when he was approached by three men. “They tried to rob him of his cell phone but the student threw it over the fence into the school property. One of the suspects climbed over the fence and took the cellphone. The student was then stabbed once in his chest during the altercation,” she said. Naidu said that the student was rushed to Greenacres Hospital in a critical condition. “The three suspects ran away on foot after the attack. A short while later someone saw him lying on the verge and called the police.” Naidu added that further details were unknown as the man was rushed off to hospital from the scene. A case of robbery and attempted murder was opened. Police are on the scene at Nelson Mandela University after shots were fired on Wednesday morning (04/10/17). The shooting unfolded after 11am as students embarked on a second day of protesting following a violent attack on Monday night in which one student was raped and another stabbed. A section close to the… October 4, 2017 The man who raped a student and stabbed another in a violent attack inside a Nelson Mandela University computer laboratory on Monday night later made the women help him carry out the equipment he stole. News of the attack spread quickly as one of the women managed to send out… October 4, 2017 The Herald can confirm that a 29-year-old suspect has been arrested in connection with Monday’s violent attack at Nelson Mandela University during which one student was raped and another stabbed. CCTV images of a suspect wearing a hat and orange top were shared rapidly across social media platforms following the… October 4, 2017