The ANC welcomed the election of its president Cyril Ramaphosa to the highest office in South Africa‚ describing him as “a man with the ability to lead with integrity and face challenges that confront our country”. “The election of President Ramaphosa once again affirms the maturing and enduring nature of our democracy‚” secretary general Ace Magashule said in a statement. “It further provides an opportunity for us all to recommit ourselves to the values that define us as South Africans – upholding the rule of law‚ advancing the interests of our country above all‚ promoting and protecting of universal justice‚ hard work and selfless service to the people – as articulated in the oath we expect our President to take.” Magashule continued: “Comrade Ramaphosa has over many years proven himself equal to the task expected of him‚ demonstrating his ability to lead with integrity and face challenges that confront our country. As one of the architects of both our world acclaimed Constitution and the transformative National Development Plan (NDP)‚ President Ramaphosa has been part of the men and women who have shaped and defined our aspirations‚ hopes and vision for our future.” He said the ruling party had confidence in Ramaphosa to continue to push the ANC’s program of fundamental and radical socio-economic transformation. “This will include giving effect to the ANC resolutions to accelerate land redistribution through‚ amongst other mechanisms‚ the expropriation of land without compensation‚ and the fulfilment of our decision to provide fee-free education to children of the working class and the poor. The eradication of poverty‚ inequality and injustice in our country must shape his legacy as president of South Africa. “To give effect to this requires‚ amongst others‚ restoring the credibility of public institutions‚ state owned enterprises and law enforcement agencies. It will further demand strong‚ properly functioning and efficient government at national‚ provincial and local levels‚ working together will all social partners‚” said Magashule. Today Cyril Ramaphosa will deliver his first address as the president of the ANC to a 5 000-strong membership at Nasrec in Johannesburg. Although the speech itself may be quite pedestrian, the moment will be significant. It will set the tone for what will, by all accounts, be a difficult… December 20, 2017 But Ramaphosa reluctant to confirm he will stand until officially nominated The leadership battle for the ANC’s presidency has begun, with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa unofficially kicking off his bid to lead the party after its December elective conference yesterday. Sharing the stage with him was, among others, former deputy… April 24, 2017 ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa was elected President of South Africa unopposed in the National Assembly on Thursday afternoon (15/02/18). Ramaphosa's candidacy was nominated by ANC backbencher Patrick Maesela and seconded by his colleague‚ Joan Fubbs. None of the opposition parties nominated a presidential candidate. Ramaphosa was congratulated by Chief Justice… February 15, 2018