Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa has requested a meeting with his former boss‚ Robert Mugabe. The two former allies are set to meet for the first time since Mnangagwa ascended to power through military assistance. Mugabe said this to close family and friends at his private residence‚ “Blue Roof”‚ in Harare at his 94th birthday celebrations. “He requested for a meeting and promised to bring along other leaders (from Zanu PF) so that we could talk‚” Mugabe said. He added that he would not hold back because Mnangagwa and the military had acted illegally and lied to the people. Mugabe’s utterances have come at a time when a newly formed political party‚ New Patriotic Front (NPF)‚ has petitioned the SADC and the AU about the November developments that led to him ceding power. The NPF allege that it was not a bloodless coup and Mugabe concurs with this assertion. “People were injured‚ some were killed‚” said the former president. Chairperson of the AU Faki Mahamat was in Zimbabwe last week on a fact-finding mission. His meeting with Mugabe was explosive as the former strongman said he was forced to leave office and his family lived in constant harassment and fear. “I was pressured by the army to resign; I did so in order to avoid conflict and bloodshed in my country‚” he said. – TimesLIVE Zimbabwe’s former vice-president‚ Emmerson Mnangagwa‚ on Tuesday morning rejected overtures from his former boss‚ President Robert Mugabe‚ to hold a meeting with him in order to discuss the present crisis engulfing the country. Instead‚ Mnangagwa said he would only return to the country when there was a guarantee of his… November 21, 2017 Emmerson Mnangagwa vowed sweeping change as he was sworn in as Zimbabwe's president yesterday, seeking to reassure foreign investors and pledging to fight poverty and corruption after Robert Mugabe's shock resignation. In his inaugural address, the new president set out a programme of dramatic change that promised a stark reversal… November 25, 2017 Professor Jonathan Moyo‚ one of former president Robert Mugabe's staunch loyalists‚ claims that Zimbabwe is now in the hands of the “most feared people” in the country’s history. Moyo‚ the former higher education minister‚ has been in hiding in self-imposed exile since the military intervened last year to remove Mugabe… January 11, 2018