Breaking down in sobs‚ Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi has apologised to the families of the Life Esidimeni patient relocation tragedy. “It’s one of the most painful and horrible events in the history of post-apartheid South Africa‚” he said. He was referring to the deaths of at least 144 patients after 1 700 mentally ill people were moved from Life Esidimeni homes into ill-equipped NGOs and state facilities in 2016. Motsoaledi began testifying at about 7pm on Wednesday‚ as the arbitration hearings draw to a close. The process aims to bring closure to the patients’ families. “As minister of health‚ I wish to apologise unconditionally to the families and to all those who are still living. “We have wronged them in a way unimaginable,” he said. He said whenever he went overseas‚ people asked him about the tragedy. “It has tarnished us in a way unimaginable. Wherever you go, they ask you about this.” Motsoaledi said people overseas did not understand that he did not have the power to make the decisions of the provincial health departments. Speaking of the chain of events that led to at least 144 deaths‚ he said: “I regarded this as a crime scene.” During cross-examination‚ Motsoaledi was told that the Precious Angels NGO was paid R1-million by the Gauteng health department‚ much of it after patients had been removed. A total of 18 patients died at this illegally licensed NGO‚ which consisted of two houses. It was closed down by the national Department of Health. Motsoaledi said: “The SIU [Special Investigating Unit] must come in.” He also said he believed that the Gauteng health department needed an overhaul. He spoke of “blatant criminality” in the department. Legal Aid advocate Lilla Crouse asked if he knew why the Life Esidimeni contract was ended and chronically moved into NGOs. He did not know. “I keep thinking about it. I think maybe with the wisdom of Justice Dikgang Moseneke, we will arrive there and say this was a motive.” Moseneke‚ the retired deputy chief justice who is chairing the hearings‚ wrapped up by thanking families for their participation and calling the process remarkable. He appreciated their commitment to seeing open justice. “I know I fought with [some of you] a good few times when you heckled,” he said. He then jokingly imitated their heckling‚ shouting “unamanga [you are lying]”‚ to laughter. “Heckling witnesses‚ battling to keep you calm, yet you remained focused‚ and we shared a lot of pain together and heard a lot of stories together‚” Moseneke said After more than 40 days of testimony‚ families started singing and the Rev Joseph Maboe‚ who lost his son Billy‚ prayed for Motsoaledi. Next week‚ lawyers will present arguments over two days. Moseneke has 30 days to determine a financial award for families. – TimesLIVE Police are encountering unexpected obstacles in their efforts to identify 19 bodies believed to be those of psychiatric patients who died after being transferred from Life Esidimeni centres to NGOs in Gauteng. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said yesterday the bodies had come from NGOs but remained unidentified months later. He… February 15, 2017 Premier overrules MEC and orders Bay facilities stay open After months of controversy and heartbreak caused by the Department of Social Development, Eastern Cape premier Phumulo Masualle decided yesterday that the contract for Life Esidimeni to run the only two fully state-funded frail care centres in Port Elizabeth will be… February 3, 2017 Embattled Social Development MEC Nancy Sihlwayi came in for scathing criticism from her own party yesterday for her “insensitive” handling of the Life Esidimeni frail care crisis in Port Elizabeth. Sihlwayi decided last year not to renew Life Esidimeni’s contract to run the only two fully state-funded frail care centres… February 4, 2017