Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has found that the Free State agriculture department did not handle the controversial Vrede Dairy Farm Project very well. In a report released on Friday‚ Mkhwebane said the department had failed to manage and monitor implementation of the terms of agreement with Estina in relation to budget evaluation‚ expenditure control and Estina’s performance. She observed that the head of department did not follow normal procurement processes‚ the payments to Estina were not in line with Treasury prescripts‚ and the agreement between the department and Estina seemed invalid. Mkhwebane directed Free State premier Ace Magashule to institute disciplinary proceedings against all implicated officials involved in the project and submit a report to the public protector on the action he will take once a disciplinary process has been concluded. However‚ the report noted that the office did not investigate key issues because of capacity and financial constraints. These issues include an investigation into how the money that was transferred to Estina was spent by that company‚ and the circumstances of the 100 local people who were supposed to benefit from the project. Mkhwebane said the Estina expenditure was being investigated by the Hawks. – Times LIVE The offices of Free State premier Ace Magashule and the provincial department of agriculture are being raided by members of the Hawks as part of their ongoing probe into state capture‚ reports and sources said. Spokesperson for the Hawks Hangwani Mulaudzi was not immediately available to comment but did confirm… January 26, 2018 Damning public protector report links top East Cape officials to misuse of millions Public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane has pointed a finger at senior Eastern Cape officials, including director-general Marion Mbina-Mthembu, for the misuse of millions of rands earmarked for statesman Nelson Mandela’s funeral. In a damning 300-page report released yesterday,… December 5, 2017 Reserve Bank asks high court to rule against protector on Absa report The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) has asked a full bench of the Pretoria High Court to declare that public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane breached the constitution‚ because she failed to act impartially and independently in her investigation into… December 6, 2017