Trevor Noah has confirmed Lupita Nyong’o will be playing the part of his mother on the big screen when his book‚ Born a Crime‚ is made into a movie. “My mom is a powerful woman who could easily be one of the beautiful soldiers in Wakanda. So it’s beyond a perfect fit that she would be portrayed on the big screen by the radiant and regal Lupita Nyong’o.” Lupita confirmed she “could not put the book down” and she’ll also have dual responsibilities. “Excited to announce that I will be starring in and producing its feature film adaptation!” #Halala My mom is a powerful woman who could easily be one of the beautiful soldiers in Wakanda. So it’s beyond a perfect fit that she would be portrayed on the big screen by the radiant and regal Lupita Nyong’ o. I’m beyond excited.  #Repost @lupitanyongo: When I read @TrevorNoah’s “Born A Crime,” I could not put the book down. Excited to announce that I will be starring in and producing its feature film adaptation! #BornACrime A post shared by  Trevor Noah (@trevornoah) on Feb 21, 2018 at 6:09pm PST  Kenyan-Mexican actress Lupita Nyong’o‚ who won an Oscar for the film 12 Years a Slave‚ has become a global elephant ambassador with international conservation organisation WildAid. She has also pledged to promote women’s issues‚ acting and the arts in Kenya. “I am proud of my Kenyan heritage‚ and part of… July 1, 2015 SANDRA Bullock was named the World’s Most Beautiful Woman of the year by People magazine yesterday, following in the footsteps of Gwyneth Paltrow, Julia Roberts and last year’s Lupita Nyong’o. The 50-year-old Oscar winner, a Hollywood veteran known for her self-deprecating humour, said she initially thought the magazine’s honour was… April 23, 2015 New Brighton-raised John Kani proud to be part of cinema history It is smashing box-office records internationally and South Africans are queuing up in their droves to see it, but for one of the stars of Black Panther – Port Elizabeth’s iconic John Kani – it is also shattering many… February 20, 2018