President Jacob Zuma is going ahead with routine cabinet committee meetings‚ the presidency said on Wednesday. The statement comes after reports that Zuma had agreed to resign after consultation with deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa. “President Jacob Zuma is today‚ 07 February 2018‚ chairing the routine meetings of Cabinet Committees as scheduled‚” the presidency said. “The Cabinet Committees sitting today include the Economic Sectors‚ Employment and Infrastructure Development (ESEID) and the International Cooperation‚ Trade and Security (ICTS). A routine Cabinet meeting will take place next week. “The meetings of Cabinet Committees take place on Tuesdays‚ Wednesdays and Thursdays to process matters that will be taken to Cabinet.” Speculation about Zuma’s fate was fuelled after the State of the Nation Address was indefinitely postponed on Tuesday. Zuma was due to deliver the address on Thursday. A special meeting of the ANC’s national executive committee was also called off. National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete said on Wednesday morning that Ramaphosa would relay details of Zuma’s fate later in the day. President Jacob Zuma will resign as soon as a list of preconditions has been finalised, in a deal struck on Tuesday afternoon between Zuma and ANC leader Cyril Ramaphosa and confirmed by sources on Tuesday night. The deal led to the postponement of an ANC national executive committee (NEC)… February 7, 2018 Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa will stand in for President Jacob Zuma at Epainette Mbeki's funeral and at some other events, the presidency said on Wednesday (11/06/2014). "...Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy at the funeral of Epainette Mbeki, mother of former president Thabo Mbeki, in Dutywa in the Eastern Cape on… June 11, 2014 Dignitaries have started to fill a large marquee erected on the grounds of the Westpark Cemetery‚ where the funeral of struggle stalwart Ahmed Kathrada is to take place. Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa‚ former African Union chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma and former first lady Zanele Mbeki are among the crowds. ANC veteran… March 29, 2017