A suspected gangster will spend 15 years behind bars for murdering a rival gangster two years ago. This marks the fourth gang-related conviction in the past three weeks. Timothy van Staden, 22, a suspected member of the New Kids gang, was sentenced to 15 years for murder, 10 years for attempted murder, eight years for illegal possession of a firearm and two years for the illegal possession of ammunition. The sentences will run concurrently. Van Staden, who was convicted in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate’s Court on Thursday , was found guilty of killing Gershwin Samuels, 25, of the Room Rats Gang, in July 2016. Police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said as the sentences would run concurrently, Van Staden would effectively serve 15 years. “Samuels was gunned down while walking in Leith Street in Helenvale with a friend. The friend managed to escape unscathed but Samuels was shot in the chest and managed to run into the garden of a nearby house where he died,” she said. Two weeks later Van Staden was arrested. Three weeks ago David “Snake” Karelse, 24, who is linked to the Upstand Dogs gang, was sentenced to life imprisonment as well as a further 25 years in jail. Karelse was caught after ballistic and forensic evidence tied him to a gun used to murder Shannon van Sensie, 27, affiliated to the Dustlife gang, in April 2016. Naidu said in the past three weeks, other gangsters had been sentenced to an accumulative 52 years in jail and one life sentence. Two men affiliated with gangs were sentenced in two separate cases in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Tuesday (09/05/17). Pieter Petersen, 36, was sentenced to life for murder, 15 years for the illegal possession of a firearm and 18months for the illegal possession of ammunition. The sentences will run… May 9, 2017 Killer pumped bullets into victim’s head in broad daylight A suspected gangster who executed a man in broad daylight while residents stood by helplessly, was sentenced to life in prison in the Port Elizabeth High Court yesterday. The gang task team filled the public gallery as Judge Glenn Goosen described… May 10, 2017 Long list of previous convictions leads to extended sentences JUST moments after one of Port Elizabeth’s most notorious gangsters was sentenced to 25 years in prison for murder yesterday, he turned around and said to an elderly woman in the gallery: “Don’t worry, ma [mom], I will appeal.” A seemingly… April 1, 2016