Scam artists are ready to prey on lonely hearts looking for love as Valentine’s Day approaches‚ the South African Fraud Prevention Service (SAFPS) said yesterday. “While the internet houses a large number of dating sites that may well serve their purpose‚ there are many that abound with romance scams‚” it cautioned. In South Africa, there has been a significant growth in this type of scam due to the proliferation of social media sites‚ not necessarily those set up for dating‚ fraud prevention service head Manie van Schalkwyk said. “Scammers typically seek out individuals older than 50‚ either single or in difficult relationships‚ who are looking for romance. “It’s not hard for these people to target the emotionally vulnerable as people reveal much about themselves on social media sites‚” he said. The scammer entices a prospective date with endearing messages that make the victim feel loved‚ Van Schalkwyk said. This is the technique that inspires trust and leads the perpetrator to ask for a gift or money‚ or a favour of some kind. Often, the person will promise a meeting‚ but this never materialises. In two recent cases‚ an internet fraud syndicate operating out of Pretoria stole more than R70-million from hundreds of women‚ with a man posing as a US soldier‚ while in Cape Town six accomplices were arrested for online dating fraud. Men are also at increasing risk. TimesLIVE reported last year on a survey by global cybersecurity company Kaspersky Lab, which assessed the responses of 6 458 online dating users from 30 countries – including 500 people in South Africa. It warned that men were ready to share personal information about themselves much faster than women were. Female users were likely to share information after several months‚ while men were more likely to hand over their personal details after just minutes or hours. Due to an increase in online scams‚ the SAFPS intends to launch a dedicated area on its website at www.safps.org.za to collect reports about scams by mid-year. The South African Centre for Information Security advises: “If you send money to someone you haven’t met‚ the money will be gone‚ along with the person you thought you knew.” – TimesLIVE AUSTRALIANS were tricked out of A$82million (R783-million) last year, with online dating scams accounting for the biggest losses, the competition regulator revealed yesterday. More than 91 000 scam complaints were received last year, figures from the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) showed. While losses fell 8% on the previous… May 19, 2015 An international cyber crime syndicate was exposed this week, with 12 people arrested on South African soil, officials said on Wednesday. Twelve people were arrested in Pretoria on Tuesday while another eight were arrested in the United States and Canada, authorities from the three countries said in a joint statement.… May 21, 2014 THE Eastern Cape Department of Correctional Services has warned job seekers not to fall prey to a scam. Correctional Services spokesman Zama Feni said more than 20 incidents of people being conned had been reported to the department since last year. Feni said while 20 cases had been reported, officials… June 14, 2016