A decision on the prosecution of former president Jacob Zuma is expected soon. National Director of Public Prosecutions Shaun Abrahams indicated yesterday that he was ready to make an announcement. But it will have to wait because of an undertaking by Abrahams to the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac) last month. Abrahams told Casac he would not make a decision on Zuma until the Constitutional Court had decided in the case involving Abrahams’s appointment. If Abrahams or the National Prosecuting Authority intended to make a decision on Zuma‚ they undertook to give Casac two weeks’ advance notice of this. Casac executive secretary Lawson Naidoo confirmed receiving a letter yesterday saying Abrahams would announce his decision after March 15. On Friday‚ Abrahams received a recommendation from a legal team on whether the prosecution of Zuma should resume. This followed calls on Zuma and the DA to give their views on the matter.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  President Jacob Zuma once again used the late hours of the night to make a major move – this time submitting representations to the National Prosecuting Authority on why he should not face fraud and corruption charges – with less than three hours to go before the deadline expired. According… February 1, 2018 The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) will only communicate on the criminal case against President Jacob Zuma after a team led by the KwaZulu-Natal director of public prosecutions‚ Moipone Noko‚ has made its recommendation. Last Thursday was the deadline for Zuma and the DA to make representations‚ if any‚ on whether… December 5, 2017 The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has given President Jacob Zuma until November 30 to make further representations on whether or not he should be prosecuted. But Zuma’s further representations should relate only to issues not previously considered when then acting national director of public prosecutions (NDPP) Mokotedi Mpshe made his… October 21, 2017