The SA Reserve Bank has confirmed that the Bank of Baroda is closing down its operations in South Africa. “The Bank of Baroda has notified the Office of the Registrar of Banks of its exit from South Africa. The Registrar‚ which is part of the South African Reserve Bank (SARB)‚ is in discussions with the Bank of Baroda to ensure its orderly withdrawal from South Africa so that no depositor is disadvantaged. At this stage‚ the SARB has no further comments on the matter‚” the Reserve Bank said in a statement issued to TimesLIVE on Monday. In October last year‚ the High Court in Pretoria ordered the Bank of Baroda to keep the accounts of Gupta-linked companies open. Judge Tati Makgoka granted an interdict against the bank‚ prohibiting the lender from deactivating or closing the banking accounts of the Gupta businesses‚ or from terminating the banker-customer relationship. The matter pertains to an application the companies made against the Indian-based bank. Baroda wanted to join four major banks in South Africa – Absa‚ Standard Bank‚ Nedbank and FNB – in closing Gupta-linked accounts.
The Bank of China also closed Gupta-linked accounts. Bank of Baroda notified the companies in March that their accounts would be closed from the end of August‚ and later the deadline was extended to the end of September. After losing an interim order application in September‚ the companies brought a new last-minute application to the court.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  The Bank of Baroda, facing pressure from its parent company in India, is said to be preparing to close the Gupta family's accounts at the end of this month. The big four South African banks dumped the family as clients between February and September. The Bank of China soon followed… March 3, 2017 The Gupta family on Thursday lost a court bid to stop the Bank of Baroda from closing down their last remaining bank accounts in South Africa. The High Court in Pretoria dismissed an application brought by 20 Gupta-owned companies to halt the account closures. The application was for interim relief… September 21, 2017 The South African Reserve Bank (SARB) has welcomed Wednesday's decision by the Competition Commission to refer local and foreign owned banks to the Competition Tribunal for price fixing. Standard Bank‚ Investec‚ Absa Bank and many foreign owned banks were referred to the tribunal‚ after they were accused by the Competition… February 16, 2017