A municipal committee descended into disarray yesterday when Nelson Mandela Bay human settlements political head Nqaba Bhanga tried to start a discussion on a controversial land invasion motion – but was promptly shot down by his colleagues. His criticism of a motion around residents who illegally occupied land in Wells Estate was drowned out by ANC and EFF councillors. Bhanga opened the meeting by saying he was worried about the extent of land invasions, particularly in the townships, and laid the blame at the ANC’s door. This comes after ANC councillor Rory Riordan submitted a motion that determined vacant land should be found for people evicted from Wells Estate last year. The motion was approved by a majority in council on January 25. But Bhanga said communities were beset with “sharks” invading land as a result of this motion. “There is anarchy happening in our communities and it is because of the irresponsible motion,” Bhanga said. ANC councillor Sizwe Jodwana defended the motion, accusing Bhanga of making empty promises of housing delivery. “We fully support that motion because your department has provided nothing,” Jodwana said. ANC councillor Mvuzo Mbelekane urged Bhanga to respect the council’s previous resolution, particularly as the item was not on the agenda. After nearly half an hour of arguments, Bhanga abandoned his plan and turned to the agenda. After the meeting Bhanga said: “I disagree [with the decision] and I’m going to oppose. I’ll never implement an illegal decision, even if it means I am removed.” Council votes to find land for households removed from M’well, Wells Estate last year The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality must find vacant land for the families evicted from Motherwell and Wells Estate last year. This comes after the council voted in favour of an altered motion which outlines plans for… January 26, 2018 Municipal land invaders from Wells Estate and Motherwell are going to be remunerated for the destruction of their property after municipal trucks bulldozed their informal dwellings. This was decided during a council meeting on Thursday after the majority of councillors agreed on a motion to have an eviction order reviewed… December 2, 2017 In a bid to combat the mushrooming of illegal shacks around Nelson Mandela Bay, the municipality is in the process of developing a bylaw to regulate the establishment of informal settlements. The proposed Informal Settlement Management bylaw will deal with illegal invasions, abandoned shacks, illegal church structures and partially built… March 23, 2017