The Hawks on Wednesday morning raided the Gupta compound in Saxonwold as part of its investigation into state capture. They have blocked off the road in the elite Johannesburg suburb‚ eyewitnesses report. A TimesLIVE journalist has confirmed this and a team is on their way there. Hawks spokesman Hangwani Mulaudzi said the raids were part of the larger state capture investigation. “We are not playing around. We take this investigation very seriously‚” Mulaudzi said. “We will be releasing a statement soon about these and other raids that we are conducting.” Hawks sources say the raids are part of a large multi-agency law enforcement operation. “Officers are going to out to secure certain items‚ documents‚ electronics. Anything that is seen as evidence for this investigation will be seized‚” a source said. TimesLIVE understands that the operation is also targeting Midrand‚ where the Guptas’ Sahara Computers is situated. The family has offices elsewhere in the country too. This is a developing story‚ more to follow. The head of the Directorate for Priority Crimes Investigation’s Serious Corruption unit has been assigned to investigate the Democratic Alliance’s “Zuptagate” charges. The party’s David Maynier‚ who laid charges of corruption against Atul Gupta‚ Ajay Gupta and Duduzane Zuma on March 17‚ said he had been informed on Wednesday that… March 30, 2016 The offices of Free State premier Ace Magashule and the provincial department of agriculture are being raided by members of the Hawks as part of their ongoing probe into state capture‚ reports and sources said. Spokesperson for the Hawks Hangwani Mulaudzi was not immediately available to comment but did confirm… January 26, 2018 But uncertainty over what exactly is being investigated Acting Hawks head Lieutenant-General Yolisa Matakata has instituted an inquiry into the leaking of thousands of e-mails between members of the Gupta family and their associates. This comes as Deputy Finance Minister Sfiso Buthelezi and Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane were implicated… June 6, 2017