The lengthy trial of Portia “Pankie” Sizani will finally reach the halfway mark in August, where she will get a chance to defend herself. Sizani, 49, a former Early Childhood Development (ECD) district coordinator, stands accused of defrauding the Eastern Cape Education Department. It is alleged that, between 2009 and 2010, she created “ghost” teachers and pocketed their salaries, amounting to R1.2-million. While the state closed its case on July 2016, Sizani made her first appearance in 2013. She did not appear in the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court yesterday. The case was postponed to August 13. In November 2016 Sizani’s legal team brought an application to have the presiding magistrate, Mputumi Mpofu, recuse himself. Sizani claimed Mpofu could be biased as his wife worked for the education department. Mpofu dismissed the application as his wife had stopped working for the department in 2013. Sizani then took the matter to the Grahamstown High Court to review the decision but Judge Jeremy Pickering dismissed the application. Portia "Pankie" Sizani‚ wife of South Africa’s ambassador to Germany‚ Stone Sizani‚ will have to stay the course in her fraud and money laundering trial after she failed in her high court bid to review the presiding magistrate’s decision not to recuse himself. The 49-year-old former Early Childhood Development (ECD)… December 12, 2017 An application for the recusal of the magistrate presiding over the R1.2million fraud case against Portia “Pankie” Sizani was dismissed yesterday. Sizani, 48, is accused of defrauding the Eastern Cape Department of Education by creating “ghost” teachers and pocketing their salaries. In the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court, magistrate Mputumi… November 25, 2016 ANC chief whip Stone Sizani’s wife back in court for fraud THE ANC parliamentary chief whip’s wife, Portia “Pankie” Sizani, found herself in the firing line of the Economic Freedom Fighters’ now famous chant of “pay back the money” as her R1.2-million fraud trial resumed yesterday. This time an alleged… June 23, 2015