The weather office in Port Elizabeth is expecting about 10mm of rain over the city and its main catchment areas this weekend. Port Elizabeth weather office spokesman Garth Sampson said most of the rain was forecast to fall overnight Saturday and through to Sunday when hundreds of cyclists will participate in The Herald Continental Cycle Tour. “There are unfounded rumours doing the rounds that in excess of 100mm of rain is expected and that will lead to the cancellation of cycle tour,” Sampson said. “No such warning has been issued by the South African Weather Service. We do not expect the rain to have any drastic effect on the event.” Sampson said an overcast day was forecast for Sunday but the office would provide an updated forecast later this week.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. Rain over parts of the Eastern Cape over the past two days brought little relief from the ongoing drought across the province. While parts of Port Elizabeth and surrounds measured significant rainfall, the catchment areas feeding into the metro’s supply dams saw little rain, keeping dam levels in the region… October 28, 2017 While fine and warm weather is expected for most of the Eastern Cape on Christmas Day, Nelson Mandela Bay residents are advised to batten down the hatches tomorrow as gale-force winds are expected. The SA Weather Service has forecast a 60km/h offshore west-southwesterly gale between Plettenberg Bay and Port Alfred,… December 23, 2016 THE weather looks set to play its part in Christmas weekend festivities. Weather Service spokesman Garth Sampson said beachgoers could expect favourable conditions. This includes Port Elizabeth and popular holiday towns along the coast including Knysna, Plettenberg Bay, Cape St Francis, St Francis Bay, Jeffreys Bay and Port Alfred. During… December 23, 2015