R6bn deal for medical mogul who grew up in impoverished North End A former Port Elizabeth man, who grew up in the then poverty-stricken North End, plans to pay $500-million (R6.06-billion) for the LA Times and other newspapers. While Dr Patrick Soon-Shiong’s empire could fund a small country, the 65-year-old is worth $7.8-billion (R94.4-billion), making him the richest doctor in the US. On Wednesday, The LA Times’s corporate parent, Tronc, announced that it had reached a deal to sell The Times in Los Angeles, the San Diego Union-Tribune, Spanishlanguage Hoy Los Angeles and community newspapers to the biotech billionaire, according to the newspaper. Above and beyond the $500-million sale, Soon-Shiong’s investment firm Nant Capital will also shoulder $90-million (R1.09-billion) in pension liabilities. The publication also indicated that the purchase agreement, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday, does not involve the stock Soon-Shiong already owns in Tronc – suggesting that he will have an interest in both Tronc and The Times. “It is often said that Southern California is the place where the world comes to see its future. It has welcomed generations of immigrants who worked hard, started new businesses and helped others do the same,” Soon-Shiong said in a note to The Times and other publications. “My own family immigrated from southern China to South Africa generations ago. We chose to settle in Los Angeles because this is the place that most felt like home. “Ultimately, this decision is deeply personal for me. As someone who grew up in apartheid South Africa, I understand the role that journalism needs to play in a free society,” Soon-Shiong said. His parents fled China during World War 2 and sought refuge in Port Elizabeth. Forty-six years ago, the family of seven lived off Soon-Shiong’s father’s meagre earnings from selling groceries and household goods to the small Chinese community in North End. They lived above his father’s general merchant store. Soon-Shiong has experienced a dramatic reversal of fortunes since then, making medical history in 2012 with his Los Angeles medical companies NantHealth and the Chan Soon-Shiong Institute for Advanced Health, when they unveiled a nationwide system for doctors to share DNA and other data on cancer patients. The system also allows analysis of a patient’s tumour in less than 60 seconds. He also established the National Immunotherapy Coalition in 2016, uniting various pharmaceutical giants in testing new drug combinations for cancer treatment. Back in Port Elizabeth, the community in which Soon-Shiong grew up expressed pride in his newest venture. Judy Forlee, who went to the then Chinese High School with Soon-Shiong, said: “We are definitely very proud he’s done so well.” Kathryn Kimberley A FORMER Port Elizabeth man is living the American dream – going from life in a dilapidated building in North End to being named the richest man in Los Angeles, with a net worth of more than R60-billion. But while Dr Patrick Soon-Shiong's empire could fund a small… October 19, 2012 THREE winning tickets shared a $1.6-billion (R26.4-billion) bonanza in the US Powerball lottery on Wednesday, after millions of people tuned in to see the fate of the worldrecord jackpot live on TV. Lottery fever gripped the US, with people forming long lines outside stores to buy tickets. “It’s official! There… January 15, 2016 At least four prominent businessmen with roots in the Eastern Cape have made it into the Sunday Times Rich List published at the weekend. The list, which identified South Africa’s wealthiest individuals by tracking their disclosed shareholding in JSE-listed investments, includes a wide range of heirs, entrepreneurs, industrialists and activists.… December 12, 2016