Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has warned that some government departments are at risk of breaching their public service salary ceilings. Gigaba said he expected government departments to continue managing carefully how they hired new employees and the salaries of existing staff. This comes as the state struggles to rein in its public sector wage bill amid plummeting tax revenue. The government is spending just over R587-billion on its public sector wage bill – and this is projected to rise to R630-billion by 2020. Gigaba said the compensation ceilings at national and provincial government departments had been reduced by R10-billion last year and it was projected they should not exceed R15-billion in 2018-19. His budget documents indicate that the government is not budgeting for huge salary increases. It has budgeted for public sector salary increases not above the prevailing inflation rate‚ around 4.4%. “As a result of these adjustments‚ and a generally tighter fiscal environment‚ total national and provincial headcount growth declined. “Nevertheless‚ some national departments are at risk of breaching their compensation ceilings‚” he said. “Departments will need to continue paying careful attention to managing headcount levels. “The government is working to ensure that the current wage negotiations process results in a fair and sustainable agreement.” Public sector trade unions‚ in wage negotiations with the government‚ have demanded salary increases of up to 10% for their members. Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has revealed that the gross national debt will shoot up to R3.4-trillion or 60% of GDP by 2020 as government is forced to borrow more to fund its policy plans. Presenting his Medium-Term Budget Policy Statement in parliament on Wednesday‚ Gigaba painted a grim picture of… October 25, 2017 Gigaba paints a picture of gloom Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s maiden medium-term budget in parliament received a pummelling from the market as the deficit ballooned, revenue collection tanked, spending breached its limits and debt soared to unprecedented levels. By 5pm, the rand had gone through R14 to the dollar after… October 26, 2017 Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba has announced an increase of 1 percentage point in the value-added tax (VAT) rate in the 2018 budget, raising it to 15% in the first adjustment to taxation on goods and services under the ANC government. The first VAT increase in 25 years, which kicks in… February 21, 2018