This holiday we took friends with us on an outing via Patensie and Hankey to the Kouga Dam. We were shocked to see the evidence – the dam level at 9.65% on that day. We had seen this dam years ago and a very different scenario then, filled to capacity. I believe every person needs to see this so that one can realise the seriousness of our drought. We can live without pretty much everything else, but not water. I start my day with water-saving top of my mind. After showering I take the water harvested from my shower in a basin and set it aside. Water scooped out of the washbasin used for washing hands and brushing teeth all goes into the basin for the toilet cistern. This goes for everyone using the bathrooms – basins and bucket scoops provided. We don’t run a tap for washing hands, but use one basin with antiseptic soap for the entire day. This water also goes into the basin for later use. Same in my kitchen, dishes are washed in a basin and once a day only. Water is reused where needed. I have a damp cloth at the sink to wipe off nearly clean utensils, then dry and pack them away. This saves labour too. Water from the rinse cycle from your washing machine pipe can be led, connected to a swimming pool pipe, to the garden. We had two large water tanks installed many years ago. This certainly helps. We are just waiting for rain now. Water-saving can be achieved, it just takes rigid discipline. We have to do it to survive. I DON’T want to be a Mother Grundy, but my wife and I had to spend a good part of Saturday and Sunday April 9 and 10 at the Home Affairs building in Govan Mbeki Avenue. Because we were kept so long, we needed to use the toilet. Well! No… April 20, 2016 Taps are running dry in many of Port Elizabeth’s western suburbs and Uitenhage’s KwaNobuhle, just as the Nelson Mandela Bay council approved new water restrictions with punitive tariffs yesterday. The municipality said parts of the western areas – which included Lorraine, Kabega and Rowallan Park – in addition to KwaNobuhle, were… December 2, 2016 Flowing dams false hope Hopes of significant drought relief have been all but dashed despite substantial rainfall in Nelson Mandela Bay and the surrounding regions over the past few days. The welcome rains have been good for water tanks and gardens and will save farmers irrigation costs – but indications… November 17, 2017