If yesterday’s Lady’s Pendant over 1 200m at Fairview was a boxing match the local horses won by a knockout. It was expected that the Western Cape would dominate the race as several star runners were entered, but local horses held their own to run first, second and fourth. Therefore PE trainers can keep their heads high. The race was won by Tara Laing’s Star Burst Galaxy (4-1) that does not always get the credit she deserves. She burst cleat to beat Alan Greeff-trained Our Destiny (30-1) with Scandola (20-1), trained by Candice BassRobinson, taking a consolatory third prize. Another PE runner, Easy Street (12-1), trained by Gavin Smith, ran fourth. The triumph came as a big boost for local racing who keep on showing they can withstand a challenge from visiting horses. Star Burst Galaxy was a very valuable buy for owners Etienne Braun and Paul Loomes. She has now won seven of her 20 starts and has earned her owners R577 070. Star Burst Galaxy, who is only four years old, was bought as a yearling for R800 000. She paid R3,20 a win, while the Quartet weighed in with a decent R15 900,90 dividend. The performances of the Cape runners were disappointing. Clifton Sunset ran fifth, Hoist The Mast sixth, Annaline eighth, Princess Peach 10th and Felicity Flyer 11th. In the first leg of the Pick 6 Strawberry Girl (8-1) looked impressive in beating 2-1 favourite Washington Square by 2,75 lengths over 1 200m. Despite a sold-looking last run in which she finished second behind I’ll Tell Her, Strawberry Girl still went off at good odds. She was well ridden by Teaque Gould for the Duncan McKenzie yard. The Pick 6 pool reached R975 125 courtesy of a R200 000 carryover. A lot was expected of Brutal Force in Race 4, but the son of Western Winter is still looking for his first win in more than 300 days. He was never in the picture and ran a disappointing sixth for his new owners Messrs Michael Brown, FH McGrath & AJ van Huyssteen. Quinlan (5-1) scored a fluent with Richard Fourie, who made the best of a late call-up to Port Elizabeth to replace Gavin Lerena, in the irons. Lrena opted to stay at home after his wife gave birth to a daughter on Wednesday. Omega Onslaught, who went off as the 10-3 favourite and chasing a sixth consecutive victory, finished fourth, 5,10 lengths behind Quinlan. Quinlan was the only Cape horse to win on the day. In Race 6 Crown Court (5-1), previously trained by Mike de Kock, made a winning debut for Alan Greeff. Greg Cheyne rode her to victory over 1 800m. Yvette Bremner-trained Altitude (18-1) led all the way, but was caught by Crown Court close to the finishing line who went on to win by a length. It was Crown Court’s second win from 12 starts. Her first win came on December 23 at Turffontein when she defeated Grab The Gavel by 3,40 lengths. Fourie was the only jockey with a double and among the trainers Snaith and Laing both had two wins. Punters' Pal HORSE racing fans in the Eastern Cape have also caught the J&B Met fever and another great weekend of top-class racing awaits us. You had to be quick to get a racecard for tomorrow's big day at Kenilworth in Cape Town. The big race looks like an open… January 31, 2014 THIS is the weekend racing fans in the Eastern Cape have been waiting for. The festival of racing, scheduled for today and Sunday at Fairview, could be the biggest in many years. The festival has been marketed aggressively. It is about quality racing, but there is also the prawn festival,… May 9, 2014 TOMORROW is Women's Day and all the more reason to keep an eye on the yards of the lady trainers at the Fairview polytrack today. The ladies are among the top trainers in Port Elizabeth. Also, do not forget the hard work by the lady assistants behind the scenes in… August 8, 2014