Visit the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Art Museum for a powerful sculpture exhibition which gives an insight into the mind of the winner of the Standard Bank Young Artist 2017 award, Beth Diane Armstrong. The exhibition, titled in perpetuum – which translates as forever, or ongoing, and highlights the permanent nature of the work on display – is at the art museum until March 26. Rhodes University graduate Armstrong uses her art to explore different expressions of scale, structure, materiality and space through stainless steel, video and light, as well as a series of drawings. Curated by Emma van der Merwe of the Everard Read galleries, in perpetuum consists of large sculptures, as well as smaller-scale pieces and drawings. Sculpting such large works takes physical, mental and artistic effort, as well as time to execute. Armstrong completed her MA in sculpture under Maureen de Jager at Rhodes in 2010. She learnt how to weld and this technique has been used in many of the pieces, joining thousands of individual sections to make a cohesive whole. in perpetuum is on show at the art museum in Park Drive and gallery hours are 9am to 5pm on weekdays, except Tuesday mornings and public holidays. Inquiries: (041) 506-2000. The sculptural work of the winner of the Standard Bank Young Artist (SBYA) 2017 award Beth Diane Armstrong is now on show at the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Art Museum. In the exhibition, which opened last night, Rhodes University graduate Armstrong plays with space and this exhibition highlights her use of… February 15, 2018 THE Eastern Cape has many wonderful artists and Alexandria-based sculptor Maureen Quin, who turns 80 this year, must surely be one of the most passionate, prolific and respected. Last week she visited Port Elizabeth's GFI Gallery to launch a gorgeous hardcover book containing images and notes of a lifetime of… June 2, 2014 This week Port Elizabeth offers a fistful of art exhibitions at galleries in Central within close proximity and yielding a range of visual treats. They include: Galerie Noko Galerie Noko in Russell Road is hosting the colourful solo exhibition by Johan Bloom, Reflective Identities, which explores the human condition in… February 21, 2017