One of the women who raised the alarm on state capture believes it was the Christian thing to do. “I did what I did because it was the right thing to do. I knew it was my responsibility as a human being‚ a mother‚ a citizen of the country and a Christian to stand for my values and principles‚” Bianca Goodson said. A former executive of Trillian Capital Partners‚ Goodson spoke out after she came across suspicious transactions at the financial consultancy. With the assistance of the Platform to Protect Whistleblowers in Africa (PPLAAF), she released a statement to former public protector Thuli Madonsela. Goodson and fellow Trillian executive Mosilo Mothepu resigned in April 2016. Their testimony contributed to allegations of state capture being exposed. Mothepu sent a statement to Madonsela that featured in the October 2016 State of Capture report‚ which detailed allegations of how the Gupta family had allegedly exercised influence over President Jacob Zuma and other senior government officials to score lucrative state contracts. A damning report had exposed Gupta-linked Trillian for alleged corrupt practices involving multimillion-rand payments from Eskom and Transnet. The report confirmed Trillian boss Eric Wood had prior knowledge that former finance Nhlanhla Nene would be fired in 2015. In November last year, Mothepu and Goodson testified at parliament’s inquiry into allegations of state capture at Eskom. The PPLAAF welcomed the arrests and the subsequent resignation of President Zuma. “This day is a victory for those who fight relentlessly against corruption‚” William Bourdon‚ chairman of the PPLAAF, said. “Whistleblowers and anti-corruption activists‚ working in the light or in the shade‚ are the true heroes of this historical day. “But true justice will only be achieved when those responsible are properly prosecuted.”  Parliament's inquiry into state capture runs the risk of becoming a “kangaroo court”, according to Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown, after it heard testimony that she was “a liar”, an “atrocious minister” and responsible for the problems in Eskom. Eskom board spokesman Khulani Qoma did not hold back as he… November 15, 2017 The National Prosecuting Authority has thrown the book at global consultancy McKinsey‚ claiming that it colluded with Gupta-linked Trillian and Eskom officials in the theft of R1.6bn from the power utility. In an affidavit filed in the North Gauteng High Court in December and obtained on Tuesday‚ the NPA accused… January 17, 2018 Thuli Madonsela has denied an insinuation by Gupta-owned television news channel ANN7 that she "deliberately leaked" an audio recording of her interview with President Jacob Zuma. "There's no admission of a leak. ANN7 is being mischievous or malicious or both‚" the former public protector told TMG Digital on Wednesday. ANN7… November 9, 2016