The Eastern Cape government has called on drought-stricken Western Cape farmers to consider moving their farming operations to the Eastern Cape. Eastern Cape Rural Development and Agrarian Reform MEC Mlibo Qoboshiyane said the province was implementing an agriculture economic transformation strategy‚ which needs investment in crop‚ grain and livestock production. The province had an investment incentive to help farmers from the Western Cape to set up their commercial farming in the province. “Farm workers do not have to lose jobs because of the drought; farmers do not have to lose profits because there is scarcity of rainfall and water in their province. The best way to avoid this is for them to move their farming to the Eastern Cape province which has good climatic conditions to grow any agriculture commodity.” He said he hopes the Western Cape provincial government will accept the invitation and two provinces should discuss commercial partnerships that will benefit both provinces and farmers. But the national disaster management said that areas of the Eastern Cape have also been hit hard by the drought. They include the Sarah Baartman District‚ Amathole District and the Nelson Mandela Metro Municipality. In a statement early this week national disaster head Dr Mmaphaka Tau Tau called on state stakeholder to implement contingency measures to curb disaster. The dam levels in the City of Cape Town currently stands at 24.9%. — Sunday Times Solutions urged to sector woes EASTERN Cape Agriculture and Rural Development MEC Mlibo Qoboshiyane has called for the farming community to stop fighting within itself and focus on growing the troubled sector in the Eastern Cape. Speaking at the official launch of the Agri-Indaba in Uitenhage yesterday, he explained how… July 29, 2015 Government deal will open up Gauteng market to struggling producers EASTERN Cape farmers are being thrown a lifeline, with the government preparing to clinch a deal that will soon open the gates of Gauteng, giving struggling producers access to wider and lucrative markets. The Department of Rural Development and Agrarian… April 7, 2016 Cindy Preller EASTERN Cape milk producers have supported a national call for the price of milk to increase to sustain the dairy industry in the province and country. Last year the Eastern Cape produced 25% of the country's 2.7 billion litres of milk. Milk Producers' Organisation (MPO) chairman Tom Turner… January 30, 2014