<span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">&#65279;</span> Zimbabweans paid their respects to Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) leader Morgan Tsvangirai following his death. Tsvangirai died on Wednesday, aged 65 at a hospital in South Africa where he had been undergoing treatment for colon cancer, which was diagnosed in 2016. Hundreds thronged Zimbabwe’s main airport Saturday as his body arrived home for burial. The body was taken to a military camp where the bodies of national heroes lie in state before burial. Tsvangirai will be buried on Tuesday in his rural home in Buhera, 250 kilometres south of Harare. Tsvangirai’s death came as tensions over his succession are threatening to tear apart the MDC, which he had led since its formation in 1999. A split in the MDC could hand advantage to Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa who took power from Robert Mugabe following a military takeover in November. Zimbabwe is gearing up for its elections, which are expected before July. The MDC once posed a formidable challenge to ZANU-PF, even winning the first round of a presidential election in 2008 vote. Before being forced into a power-sharing deal with ZANU-PF as a prime minister, Tsvangirai was beaten up by police, his rallies were banned and he was charged with treason and jailed. “When we write the history of this country we cannot leave out the participation and role that the former prime minister played in the effort to entrench democratic values in this country,” Mnangagwa said shortly after offering his condolences to Tsvangirai’s family on Sunday. Mnangagwa said the upcoming elections in Zimbabwe should be free, fair and credible as a tribute to Tsvangirai. Zimbabwe opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai died on Wednesday in South Africa after a long battle with cancer, the vice-president of his Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party said. "I can confirm that he died this evening. The family communicated this to me," Elias Mudzuri told Reuters. As you are aware… February 14, 2018 Zimbabwe's main opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, is critically ill in a Johannesburg hospital and his supporters should brace for the worst, a source with knowledge of his condition said yesterday. Tsvangirai, 65, has been in and out of hospital since disclosing in June 2016 that he had colon cancer. He… February 7, 2018 Founding Movement for Democratic Change treasurer Roy Bennett died in a helicopter crash in a remote area of the US state of New Mexico, authorities said Thursday. Bennett was killed along with his wife Heather and three other people after the helicopter went down on Wednesday, New Mexico state police… January 19, 2018