The former SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) chief executive yesterday accused Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini of telling him to find dirt on banks so they would not get contracts to pay social grants. “The minister said I must find something on the banks that will make the banks look like they will not be able to get into the fray of paying the contracts‚” Thokozani Magwaza told the inquiry into Dlamini’s role and liability in the social grants debacle. Magwaza said he had refused to follow Dlamini’s instructions. “I disputed . . . I said I cannot be able to do that. I cannot be able to find anything on the banks.” Magwaza has told the inquiry that Dlamini ran Sassa as if it was her own shop. He also said Dlamini had disturbed the smooth running of the agency. In contrast‚ Dlamini has argued before the same inquiry that the problems at Sassa started when Magwaza was appointed as its chief executive. She said Magwaza had threatened to terminate the work-streams contracts. She has denied Magwaza and former social development director-general Zane Dangor’s assertion the workstreams were a parallel process to Sassa’s work. Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini “had known since July 2015 of inadequacies in the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) to pay grant recipients on its own”. Furthermore‚ “Dlamini was in control of the process of Sassa taking over grant payments”. She appointed individuals who reported directly to her. Sassa… April 8, 2017 Social development minister Bathabile Dlamini is set to face tough questions from former SA Social Security Agency (Sassa) director general Zane Dangor on Thursday. Dlamini is appearing at an inquiry that is investigating her role in the social grants crisis. She has maintained throughout the week that she cannot be… January 25, 2018 The inquiry into social development minister Bathabile Dlamini's role in the social grants saga got off to a shaky start on Tuesday as she was accused of being "unresponsive and evasive". Counsel for the Black Sash Trust‚ Geoff Budlender SC‚ grilled Dlamini on the procurement process of the leaders of… January 23, 2018