With mom, dad and grandma signing up in increasing numbers, Facebook is losing younger users in the United States at a faster pace than previously estimated, researchers said yesterday. A report by eMarketer said Snapchat was drawing youths away from Facebook at a quicker clip than Facebook-owned Instagram. Facebook is still growing in the US market, the research firm states, mainly due to increases in use by older age groups. The report is the latest to highlight Facebook’s problem with attracting and keeping young people, who have long been a core user base for the world’s biggest social network. The research firm said it expected the very first decline in the 18-24 age group in the US, a drop of 5.8% this year. It also said that for the first time since its research began, less than half of the 12-17 age group in the United States would be on Facebook, with a 5.6% drop in that segment. The under-12 age group would meanwhile see a 9.3% decline this year. The same trend is expected to continue into the next two years, with declines in all US user segments under 25. Facebook will lose an estimated two million users under 25 this year, with Snapchat and Instagram gaining. The report said Snapchat would add 1.9 million users under 25 this year, and Instagram 1.6 million.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Thabiso Mochiko AT LEAST 10.6-million South Africans use the WhatsApp instant messaging app on their smartphones‚ a report released on Thursday by local technology research firms World Wide Worx and Fuseware has revealed. The report‚ which focused on social media and instant messaging on cellphones‚ comes following the news this… February 21, 2014 There is significant gender equality in South Africans' use of Facebook, a report on social media has found. The SA Social Media Landscape 2015 report, released on Monday (03/11/2014), found of those users whose gender was identifiable, 5.6 million males and 5.6m females used Facebook. The report was compiled by… November 3, 2014 Cost concerns as time runs out for parents to acquire car safety devices STRAP your child in a car seat or you will be fined. Parents of children below the age of three years have less than a month to install car seats before the amendment to the National Road… March 31, 2015