    The other day I got it into my head to paint a pair of sneakers by hand, so I grabbed some fabric paint (I have a decent collection but you can buy a full set of little ones for about R150 – and do quite a few projects) and a pair of oldish sneakers … and tried my hand at making watermelon sneakers – as one does. These particular ones are Tomys I wore to the very first Color Run – this is when I found that Tomys don’t have good foot support – the soccer mom in me still loves them though. They were pretty much ruined by the colour powder and despite a rather good wash, the sneakers just looked a little too dirty beige for my liking. First thing I did was to prep some green paint in two shades, as well as a nice bright red.
I painted the base colour – which is green at the toes and red around the rest – and let it dry. If you paint a thin coat it dries rather quickly. Then I went over with a darker green creating a watermelon peel effect. I used a green Sharpie pen which is fabric marker to go over and create slight shading. Then I used a black marker to create seeds. The sneakers dried crazy fast and were ready to wear in like an hour. I let it dry overnight though, just to be sure… I would totally do this again with some cheap sneakers, this particular pair had been washed so many times that the stitching was coming undone a little, so the lines don’t look as clean as I’d like, but it was an awesome first try and I can now say I can hand-paint sneakers There you have it – a quick little DIY. You can let your imagination run wild and paint shoes for dress-up outfits or grab some friends and some wine and make a night out of it. By Helen Crooks IT ALWAYS starts with: "Ant, how hard would it be to..."and, because the Ant in question is our resident contractor, with his own company, you can be sure the answer will be evasive. Not because it can't be done, but because he knows that we expect to… February 2, 2014 PLEASE can you help me get rid of a "bad" smell in my deep freezer? We came home from holiday and found it had defrosted, and contents smelt horrible. I've tried a small dish of vanilla essence in it, and washed out with bicarbonate of soda and water, but to… January 19, 2014 Louise Liebenberg chats to Bay trendsetters who've been curating stunning second-hand clothes that have drawn a veritable mix of customers top fashion items - with oodles of style to boot What planted the seed for The Backroom? I love a bargain and I love nice things. After a consultation with… December 18, 2017