A video of Plettenberg Bay’s second penguin release for 2017, held on Saturday 11 November, was recently featured on National Geographic’s Facebook page and shared with their 45 million followers and fans. The video, filmed by Garth Ensley, was viewed more than 760 000 times and is a tribute to the efforts of the Plettenberg Bay conservation organisations. The African penguins were rehabilitated at Tenikwa Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre and released in collaboration with Nature’s Valley Trust and Birdlife South Africa. Charming a crowd of more than 500 spectators, the penguins waddled to the water’s edge before diving in and, hopefully, made their way home. Watch the video here:   Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  Life is a breeze for an African penguin that can now shuffle about unaided after being found paralysed on a beach near Plettenberg Bay in December. The as yet unnamed penguin, whose sex is also undetermined, was taken to the Southern African Foundation for the Conservation of Coastal Birds (Sanccob)… August 4, 2016 Low-cost airline Mango has joined forces with The Herald to assist in awareness of the plight of endangered African penguins in the greater Port Elizabeth area. Volunteers and authorities are presently rounding up and rescuing scores of penguins affected by two successive oil spills in the area with more than… August 23, 2016 John Harvey UNDERSTANDING "penguin lingo" is decidedly not for the birds alone. Interpreted correctly, albeit with a slight proclivity for innuendo, the penguin patois reads like a veritable 50 Shades of Black and White. There's the macho "preening", the "ecstatic display" to attract mates and, of course, the subservient "bowing"… January 21, 2013