South Africa’s Department of Home Affairs has confirmed what it calls “a routine inspection” that was undertaken at the ANN7 Studios in Midrand‚ Johannesburg‚ on Thursday‚ February 22. The action is believed to be related to staff from India who may not have work permits. “As part of its mandate‚ the Inspectorate Directorate of the Department undertakes regular inspections on the basis of information provided to them‚ which information would demand a thorough investigation including in loco inspections‚” the department said in a statement. “In this regard‚ our officials visited ANN7 Studios to verify information related to visas of certain individuals employed by the organisation. “Once verified‚ the Department will release the findings of the inspection.” The Gupta family’s Oakbay Investments sold its shares in ANN7 and The New Age to Mzwanele “Jimmy” Manyi’s Lodidox last year‚ in a “vendor-financed” deal‚ reportedly for R450-million. MultiChoice is under pressure to “come clean” about its contracts with Gupta-owned television news channel ANN7. Ongoing revelations contained in the Gupta leaks have revealed allegedly questionable payments by MultiChoice to ANN7 and the involvement of former communications minister Faith Muthambi. “Hiding behind confidentiality clauses and telling half-truths is no… November 27, 2017 Ajay Gupta wanted the Government Communication Information System (GCIS) to transfer R600-million to the Guptas to start their media company. Former GCIS chief executive Themba Maseko told yesterday on Radio 702 about meeting Gupta in December 2010. “So, what he was basically telling me, was that I must transfer the… December 14, 2017 The ANC and Guptas have agreed that an urgent meeting is needed following allegations that the politically connected family was influencing Cabinet appointments. "We are still waiting for confirmation, but... both sides have agreed that we need to meet urgently, perhaps before the end of the week," ANC national spokesperson… March 22, 2016