The outcome of a meeting between the ANC’s top officials and Jacob Zuma in Pretoria to discuss his future as president was still unknown last night. But in the strongest indication yet that he will not step down voluntarily, ANC national executive committee member Lindiwe Sisulu confirmed that the national working committee (NWC) had been summoned to Luthuli House for an urgent meeting this afternoon. Last night’s meeting was all over by 10.30, an hour after it started. There was, however, no official word about what had been discussed or what resolutions, if any, had been made. The outcome could determine whether Zuma stays and delivers the opening speech to parliament this week. The meeting followed an NWC decision on Monday last week, mandating the officials to meet Zuma and call on him to resign. At the St John’s Apostolic Faith Mission in Katlehong earlier yesterday, ANC national chairman Gwede Mantashe said the officials wanted to ensure there was stability in the country and within the ANC. He said the officials were meeting Zuma to discuss what was in the best interest of the country and the party. Last month, the national executive committee also mandated national officials to urge the president to step down. Should he not, he could face impeachment or even a no-confidence motion from his own party. Should Zuma agree to resign before the opening of parliament, it would have to elect a president within 30 days – most likely ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa. There is mounting pressure for Zuma to be removed. The ANC top six, led by Ramaphosa, were in Limpopo earlier yesterday meeting VaVhenda King Ramabhulana, BaPedi King Sekhukhune, BaLobedu Queen Modjadji and chiefs of the Shangaan and Tsonga people. The ANC officials – Ramaphosa, Mantashe, deputy president David Mabuza, secretary-general Ace Magashule, deputy secretary-general SMS YOUR VIEWS TO 32187 SMSes are charged at R1 per 160 characters. Free SMSes do not apply. Errors will be billed. Jessie Duarte and treasurer-general Paul Mashatile – were expected to discuss Zuma’s exit from the presidency with him, whether he should deliver the state of the nation address this week and possible impeachment proceedings. Mashatile told CNBC last week that the party wanted to avoid Zuma’s removal through a motion of no confidence or impeachment. The EFF has written to National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete to schedule a debate and a motion of no confidence in Zuma the day before his address in parliament. Mbete has scheduled the motion for February 22, the day after the budget speech. Some opposition parties have called for the postponement of Thursday’s address, saying Zuma is not fit to deliver it. Zuma has survived seven motions of no confidence, but it is thought unlikely he will survive another such motion. – Business Day President Jacob Zuma said something to ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe‚ deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa and treasurer general Zweli Mkhize to make them change their minds about his cabinet reshuffle‚ according to TV news channel ANN7. ANN7 reported on Wednesday night that Zuma had questioned whether the ANC leadership would… April 6, 2017 President’s backers push for public apology from ‘ill-disciplined’ top three President Jacob Zuma staged a fightback in the ANC’s extended national working committee (NWC) yesterday, with his backers demanding that Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa‚ secretary-general Gwede Mantashe and treasurer-general Zweli Mkhize issue a public apology for publicly disagreeing with his… April 5, 2017 ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe made a revealing remark on Wednesday about the fierce disagreements going on behind closed doors within the ruling party. “The point we are making is that we find it adult enough to close a door‚ beat each other up and‚ if you find me with… April 6, 2017