Zimbabwean President Emmerson Mnangagwa yesterday praised opposition icon Morgan Tsvangirai, who died last week, as an outstanding political figure who had endured political hardship and deserved his place in the country’s history. Tsvangirai, the strongest and fiercest opponent to Robert Mugabe and his Zanu-PF party’s four decades of rule, died on Wednesday, aged 65, at a hospital in South Africa where he was being treated for colon cancer. “When we write the history of this country, we cannot leave out the participation and role that the former prime minister played in the effort to entrench democratic values in this country,” Mnangagwa said shortly after offering his condolences to Tsvangirai’s family. “He travelled a difficult journey and we should remember that.” Mnangagwa also urged unity as the country mourned the death of a man who had become a symbol of resistance to authoritarian rule and of the fight for democracy. Tsvangirai will be buried at his rural home in Buhera tomorrow. Zimbabwe's main opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, is critically ill in a Johannesburg hospital and his supporters should brace for the worst, a source with knowledge of his condition said yesterday. Tsvangirai, 65, has been in and out of hospital since disclosing in June 2016 that he had colon cancer. He… February 7, 2018 Zimbabwe opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai died on Wednesday in South Africa after a long battle with cancer, the vice-president of his Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) party said. "I can confirm that he died this evening. The family communicated this to me," Elias Mudzuri told Reuters. As you are aware… February 14, 2018 Emmerson Mnangagwa vowed sweeping change as he was sworn in as Zimbabwe's president yesterday, seeking to reassure foreign investors and pledging to fight poverty and corruption after Robert Mugabe's shock resignation. In his inaugural address, the new president set out a programme of dramatic change that promised a stark reversal… November 25, 2017