One person died on Tuesday morning when a taxi transporting 17 primary school pupils was involved in a head-on-collision in Addo. The 26-year-old taxi driver has been arrested. Police spokeswoman Captain Gerda Swart said the accident happened at about 7.40am along the R336 near Selborne UCC Primary School. “The driver of the minibus alleged that a taxi was in front of him and slammed on the brakes. He claims that this forced him to swerve into oncoming traffic which resulted in a head-on-collision,” she said. “The 45-year-old driver of the car died on the scene as a result of the impact. The driver of the minibus was arrested on the scene for culpable homicide as well as reckless and negligent driving.” The pupils – from Sundays River Primary School – were taken to the Kirkwood Hospital for observation. “None of the children were injured in the accident but as a precaution, they were taken to the hospital for observation until further transport arrangements can be made for them,” Swart said. The taxi driver is expected to appear in the Kirkwood Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. Six children, taxi driver among East Cape victims IN a black weekend on Eastern Cape roads, 16 people – including six schoolchildren – died and scores were injured, mostly in head-on collisions. Warrant Officer Alwin Labans said in the most serious of the Bay accidents, police were investigating three cases… March 7, 2016 FIVE people died and 134 were injured in separate road accidents in a black weekend for Port Elizabeth. The dead included municipal assistant director for occupational safety health and wellness Dr Xolile Ketse and motoring figure Will Glibbery. Of the five victims, three died last night when a suspected drunk… July 28, 2014 Kids crammed like sardines in vehicle meant to carry just 15 A PATENSIE taxi driver who was transporting 50 schoolchildren inside a 15-seater minibus and arrested for overloading and speeding yesterday, is expected to appear in court today. The 31-year-old driver, who police are not naming until he appears in court,… August 6, 2015