AS the country scrambles to help Cape Town beat “Day Zero”‚ Paseka “Pastor Mboro” Motsoeneng has claimed that he can help the drought-stricken area by praying for rain. The pastor said concerned South Africans had been pleading for him to intervene in the crisis. He said he had decided the best way to help the situation would be to start a 90-day prayer service. “I do not have miracles‚ but through God the situation won’t have to reach zero level zone. I know God will answer.” The pastor will start the service at his Incredible Happenings Ministries church tomorrow, praying for rain to fall in the Western Cape‚ Eastern Cape and Northern Cape. He will then jet into Cape Town a few days later to meet with spiritual and political leaders in the area. Politicians and celebrities‚ including rapper Brickz‚ attended a special service for rain held by Mboro in 2016. After rain fell‚ Mboro said God had told him to pray for the nation. DA leader Mmusi Maimane announced earlier this week that Day Zero‚ the day when taps would be turned off in Cape Town‚ had been pushed back four days to April 16. The city of Ekurhuleni has launched an investigation into the death of a three-year-old girl and the alleged assault of a paramedic at the Incredible Happenings church in Katlehong on December 24‚ the municipality said on Monday. Controversial pastor Paseka "Mboro" Motsoeneng denies assaulting one of the paramedics after they… January 2, 2018 Baby Latoya‚ who died at Pastor Paseka Mboro Motsoeneng’s church in Katlehong on Christmas Eve‚ suffered a lot before she died. According to Mboro‚ Latoya’s mother had looked for medical assistance for her child but had not received any help until she turned to him. “On Sunday‚ a woman came… December 28, 2017 A Multi-faith group of religious leaders, along with the metro’s leadership, gathered at the Port Elizabeth City Hall to pray for rain yesterday – under a cloudless blue sky and balmy weather. Among them was Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip, who assured the group that God would answer their… December 16, 2016