Members of the media were barred from the Ondini Royal Palace in Ulundi in northern KwaZulu-Natal on Monday as King Goodwill Zwelithini held a private meeting with President Jacob Zuma. A presidential protection unit officer‚ who said they were acting on Zuma’s instructions‚ said the meeting was private and no media were allowed. Reporters were not allowed near the gate‚ however local television station 1KZN TV was allowed in and‚ according to the presidential protection unit‚ they were there at the invitation of the king. The Presidency issued a statement earlier in the day denying that Zuma – who is under pressure to step down – was meeting the monarch. The statement said that he was paying a longstanding “courtesy call” to the king‚ which was initially meant to take place in January but was postponed due to “diary challenges on both sides”. Presidency officials instructed police to “remove” media outside the palace. The removal of media from the palace was ordered as unconfirmed reports circulated on social media‚ speculating whether the meeting would see Zuma stepping down. Zulu royal household spokesmen were not immediately available. – TimesLIVE Tim Flack‚ spokesperson for the SA Defence Force Union‚ has laid charges of hate speech against Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini for his remarks that foreigners were "lice". The charges were laid at SA Human Right Commission on Wednesday. Three weeks ago‚ King Zwelithini said foreigners must go back to where… April 16, 2015 Ethiopian Tescma Marcus had been in South Africa for only four months. He came here to join his older brother run a spaza shop in Umlazi township, Durban. On Friday night the 22-year-old became the latest victim of a spate of xenophobic attacks that has engulfed Durban. Marcus died at… April 12, 2015 Dalindyebo refuses to wear uniform or eat samp BEFORE his surprise admission to a private East London hospital on Friday night, jailed AbaThembu King Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo allegedly gave prison authorities a hard time. According to his lawyer and a source incarcerated with the 51year-old king, Dalindyebo refused to wear prison… January 11, 2016