 The 12 lucky couples shortlisted for The Herald Bride and Groom 2017 competition are in for spectacular prizes worth more than R100 000. Francarlo Designer Goldsmith is offering prizes valued at R15 493 for the winning couple and the SMS readers competition winner. The winning couple will receive His and Hers Citizen Eco-Drive watches valued at R4 999 and R7 999 respectively, while the SMS competition winner will receive a ladies’ Obaku Denmark watch to the value of R2 495. Francarlo Designer Goldsmith executive director Tanya Slabbert said: “With Citizen having withstood more than 100 years in the market, the brand’s enduring passion is to keep making better watches which people everywhere will love. “With Citizen’s unique technologies and techniques [including light-powered watches, satellite time-keeping, high performance sports watches and Bluetooth watches] the brand has consistently pursued the essence of the watch and opened up new possibilities,” she said. Along with their mission to help newly-wedded couples remember their special day with love, Citizen aims to make a positive contribution to the environment with its Eco-Drive technology, which converts light into energy. “[The technology] recharges continuously, so you’ll never have to replace a battery in your watch [and] fewer batteries in the waste stream mean you will be making a positive contribution towards saving our environment and creating a sustainable future,” Slabbert said. Other prizes include Viva Gym membership vouchers and hampers; a two night stay at Kuzuko Lodge for the winning couple; hair treatments from Ultimate Stylists; and a four-night cruise visiting Pomene Bay in Mozambique in an ocean-view cabin aboard the MSC Sinfonia. The winning couple will also be treated to a private dinner for 10 at the Beach Hotel. This is your last chance to enter The Herald Bride and Groom 2016 competition as entries close at noon today. The winners stand a chance of walking away with designer watches from one of Port Elizabeth’s leading jewellers, Francarlo Designer Goldsmith. Valued at almost R15 000, the winning couple will… February 10, 2017 An internal Herald panel and Bride and Groom 2016 winners Haylin and Nicole Redelinghuys have picked 12 lucky couples for final round of The Herald Bride and Groom 2017 competition. In no particular order, they are: Allison and David McGillivray Brittney and Nicholas van de Water Chanelle and Alistair Gilfillan… February 16, 2018 Last-minute entries are welcome until noon today for The Herald Bride and Groom competition, with fabulous prizes in store for this year’s winners, finalists and the readers’ SMS prediction winner. Kuzuko Lodge The winning couple will receive two nights’ stay at Kuzuko Lodge to the value of R15 000.… February 9, 2018