 After months of speculation and many conspiracy theories‚ Kylie Jenner revealed on Sunday that she gave birth to a girl on February 1. Kylie‚ who suddenly disappeared from social media in the weeks leading up to the birth‚ has had fans up in arms because of her information blackout. Many speculated that she was pregnant but the star refused to confirm anything. Instead‚ she imposed a blanket silence. But she has finally broken her silence and said she wanted to handle her pregnancy in privacy. Not only did she post a note explaining what happened‚ Kylie has posted an 11-minute video of her pregnancy journey. ♥️ A post shared by  Kylie (@kyliejenner) on Feb 4, 2018 at 12:27pm PST  In it her baby daddy‚ Travis Scott‚ and her family are seen around her as she goes through pregnancy. Jenner’s sister, Khloe Kardashian, who is also expecting, took to Instagram to congratulate her. Congratulations My Sweet Kylie! What a magical ride it’s been! I’ll miss you bumping along with me. Never in a million years did I think we would do this together but it’s been that much more special because of it. God is so great!! He had His plan all along! I love you little mama  love big mama A post shared by  Khloé (@khloekardashian) on Feb 4, 2018 at 3:20pm PST  Boy weighing 5.58kg the biggest born at PE hospital Lying happily between twins born on the same day as him, Endinako Manana positively dwarfs the little tots – not surprising when he was born weighing a hefty 5.58kg. Making history when he was born at the weekend, Manana is the… November 22, 2017 Raising Zephany Nurse was the happiest years of her life, the woman accused of snatching the three-day-old baby from Groote Schuur Hospital in 1997 said. “The Lord knows why He placed her in my arms,” the 51-year-old Lavender Hill woman told News24 outside the Western Cape High Court on Thursday.… March 10, 2016 54 girls had babies last year – and more already expecting A staggering 54 girls were pregnant at Port Elizabeth’s Booysen Park High School last year, an increasingly prevalent trend fuelled by drugs, alcohol, peer pressure and desperation for income. So far this year, at least four girls have been found… January 16, 2017