Between Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s budget speech and the inauguration of President Cyril Ramaphosa, South Africa is about to become a better place for everyone. This was the message of optimism from economist Dr Roelof Botha who spoke on the high and low points of the national budget during a breakfast held by PricewaterhouseCoopers yesterday. “I am so bullish about the future,” Botha said. “Last year was a rough year. “But we’ve survived so much – from Chris Hani’s assassination to the recession in 2008 and the [Jacob] Zuma era. “A totally new dawn is waiting for South Africa.” The country had already seen benefits of Ramaphosa’s reign since his election as ANC chairman in December, Botha said. “The short-term currency strength is undoubtedly [linked to] his election. “From January 2016 to now the rand has strengthened by 45%. That is a world record, and Ramaphosa gets the gold medal. “We’ve also seen an uptick in business confidence and Ramaphosa has managed to rein in Eskom, whose prices have gone up by 440% since 2004.”  The next step, according to Botha, should be to focus on job creation – which could be done through Ramaphosa’s planned jobs summit – and to develop proactive tourism policies to attract more overseas tour operators. “It is entirely possible for South Africa in the next 24 months to have such a large degree of fiscal stability that we can [also] get cracking on urban renewal. “Hopefully we’ll start moving dramatically back to the vision of Nelson Mandela, which differed remarkably from the vision of the previous president,” Botha said. “I’m not going to increase Australia’s average IQ – I’m staying right here.” Striding confidently with his head up and chest out‚ President Cyril Ramaphosa led a group of about 100 people on a morning walk to promote a healthy lifestyle at dawn on Tuesday. Residents joined Ramaphosa at 5:30am at the Guguletu Sports Centre in Cape Town‚ from where they set off… February 20, 2018 The election of Cyril Ramaphosa as ANC president heralded a new beginning for South Africa after a tough year for the country last year. This was the view of political commentator Justice Malala, who was speaking at an event held by financial services group PSG at the Boardwalk Hotel… January 31, 2018 Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa has said that buying votes is a “new disease” gripping the ANC. “It is concerning to a point where it is going to dilute democracy within our organisation‚” Ramaphosa said on Thursday night on the Karima Brown Show on Radio 702. “We’ve been hearing stories that… December 8, 2017