A drunken argument between two suspected gangsters led to one of them being admitted to hospital after he was shot in the leg at a house in Helenvale. The incident came hours after police launched a province-wide anti-crime campaign, Operation Fiela Reclaim. Two suspects were arrested in the swoop and drugs and ammunition were seized. Yesterday, police spokeswoman Colonel Priscilla Naidu said two members of the Roomrats gang had an argument at about 10pm on Saturday. “The victim, who is 20 years old, was drinking with his friends at a house in Deverell Street when an argument broke out between him a friend. The victim was shot in his thigh and he was taken to hospital,” she said. In a separate shooting at 8.30am yesterday, a 16-year-old was shot in the chest at the corner of Deverell Street and Stanford Road, also in Helenvale. Naidu said the teenager was shot during a standoff between members of the rival New Kids and Roomrats gangs. By 4pm yesterday, police had arrested another 16-year-old for the shooting. The juvenile will appear in the youth court tomorrow for attempted murder. As part of Operation Fiela Reclaim, Naidu said the provincial gang investigation unit raided a drug den in Hankey early on Saturday and seized 100 mandrax tablets and 10 tik pipes. Police puzzled by motive after man shot dead in front of northern areas house A Port Elizabeth man was shot and killed while standing in front of his house in Deverell Road, Helenvale, at the weekend. Sean Tarentaal, 50, was killed at about 8pm on Saturday. Police remain tightlipped as… January 9, 2017 A teenager was shot dead and two people were wounded in a suspected gang shooting at the Gelvandale SPAR yesterday morning. Police have linked the incident to the double murder in a Helenvale street on Saturday, when two men were shot – allegedly by members of the New Kids gang.… September 25, 2017 Suspected gang row leaves man dead, teenage girl fighting for life A beachfront brawl turned deadly in Port Elizabeth yesterday morning when shots were fired during the fracas, leaving one man dead in hospital and a teenager fighting for her life. Warring gangs were behind the violence, which happened on… October 16, 2017