Two rhinos have been killed – with one dehorned – in the first poaching incident in the Eastern Cape this year. The white rhinos, from the eZulu Game Reserve between Bedford and Grahamstown, were found on Monday. According to authorities, one rhino was staggering around after being wounded. This is the second poaching on the reserve, with the first in January 2016. Last year, 12 rhinos were killed in the Eastern Cape, compared with 19 killed in 2016. Police spokeswoman Colonel Sibongile Soci said a rhino carcass was found at about 10am on Monday. “Indication was that the animal was shot and both horns were taken.” By midday, Soci said another rhino had been found alive but injured. “Both horns on this rhino were still intact but unfortunately the animal had to be put down.” Soci said members of the Stock Theft and Endangered Species Unit were still gathering information, but the poachings were thought to have been done by the same syndicate. Officials close to the probe think the group comes from Gauteng. Soci confirmed both animals had been shot with a rifle. In another incident, police tracked down and arrested eight suspected poachers in December – seven of whom remain in jail. The men, mostly foreign nationals, were arrested for allegedly conspiring to poach rhino on the Great Fish River Nature Reserve, between Grahamstown and Fort Beaufort, near to the eZulu reserve. Soci said significant progress had been made by specialist detectives assigned to track down syndicates. The eight were released on bail by the Alice Magistrate’s Court two weeks ago but seven were rearrested on the same day after evidence allegedly linked them to a poaching on the Wildschutsberg Game Reserve near Komani.  The poaching saw an entire rhino population on the Wildschutsberg Reserve wiped out over three weeks – killing a total of five rhinos. The men are expected to apply for bail in the Sterkstroom Magistrate’s Court tomorrow.  Two attacks in three weeks on Eastern Cape reserve leave total of five animals dead In a blow for anti-poaching efforts in the Eastern Cape, five rhinos have been killed in two separate attacks on the same private game reserve in the past three weeks. In the latest attack at… October 25, 2017 TWO Eastern Cape rhinos are lucky to be alive after a “highly organised” poaching incident this week in which the animals were apparently darted before having their horns “surgically” removed. January 25, 2014 ‘Trading illegally, a gram of rhino horn is worth more now than a gram of cocaine or even a gram of gold’ THREE black rhino – two adults and a calf – were found dead in the second poaching incident at the same nature reserve in the Eastern Cape in… April 16, 2016