Fashion and trend gurus reckon the State of the Nation Address (Sona) will come with a wave of African couture – Black Panther style. Did fashion designers stab pins into their own eyes after working overtime to get Sona outfits ready‚ only to receive news of the grand event’s postponement? Sona is expected to take place on Friday after a flurry of political activity‚ which eventually led to President Jacob Zuma stepping down on Wednesday. How will all this turmoil affect the choice of outfits? Fashion trend analyst Craig Jacobs declares that this is the year of “African pride”. He points out that style trends from key international events like New York Fashion Week were inspired by the upcoming blockbuster superhero movie Black Panther. “We cannot discount the influence of a movie like Black Panther in shining the spotlight on an African sensibility‚ so we are hoping our politicians do take up that torch‚” Jacobs said. “Yes‚ Mandla Mandela does show the way when it comes to traditional attire‚ but I hope that politicians like Fikile Mbalula and Malusi Gigaba will add a bit of an African flavour to their suits.” He said it would be refreshing to see the men brave enough to wear a bolder shade of blue or green‚ rather than the typical sea of navy blues‚ greys and blacks. “I’m hoping that Cyril Ramaphosa doesn’t go the boring route and wear another red tie. Yes‚ we know it worked for Obama [and even Trump has a predilection for the shade] but let’s try to be a little more original. Why not orange‚ which symbolises change?” Jacobs said. Paledi Segapo‚ an award-winning fashion designer and celebrity stylist‚ believes that going sheer is what’s fashionable – now and forever. “Fashion is short-lived‚ style is eternal and in-born. I never encourage people to pay particular attention on fashion but style‚” Segapo said. He encouraged supporting local designs. “I don’t think there’s a golden rule cast in stone as to what people will be wearing. All I know for a fact‚ everyone enjoys looking beautiful and comfortable.” Segapo said he has clients who will be wearing his designs at the event. “It will be interesting to see how ministers interpret the state of affairs through the choice of fashion‚ if it will even be a consideration. “South Africa being such a vibrant nation‚ I expect to still see bright and colourful regalia‚” fashion designer Sylvester Falata said. “In as much as there’s a lot of uncertainty‚ I know that we are an optimistic nation and we will see some of that displayed on the day.” Luckily‚ Falata and others were done with their garments ahead of the first Sona date. – TimesLIVE In the midst of protests against President Jacob Zuma ahead of the latest State of the Nation Address‚ politicians and government officials had the 2016 SONA red carpet lit with hot (and not so hot) fashion looks galore. Draped in a canary yellow dress by Gert Johann Coetzee‚ Public Protector… February 11, 2016 The recent happenings in our political circles have shown that we have a long journey to go if we are to go anywhere beyond the nostalgia of having made it without war in this country. As the country’s No 1 man, who doesn’t want to pay back the money, would… February 13, 2015 ANC heavyweights in parliament have distanced themselves from President Jacob Zuma’s decision to deploy more than 400 soldiers for the State of the Nation Address (Sona) to maintain “law and order”. They have also given assurances to opposition parties that the soldiers will not be deployed inside the parliamentary precinct.… February 8, 2017