The Film and Publications Board (FPB) has confirmed that Inxeba: The Wound is the first nonpornographic film to get the X18 classification‚ a rating usually only given to hardcore porn. On Wednesday, the FPB’s Appeal Tribunal overturned a previous classification by the body‚ giving it an X18‚ the highest rating a movie or TV series can get. It came after complaints about the film from The Men and Boy Foundation and the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa. FPB acting chief executive Abongile Mashile said: “There are specific criteria that need to be met‚ which include the showing of genitalia. So we have not rated a movie like this as X18.” Mashile said members of the tribunal were chosen by the minister of communication and there was no consultation over this. The only way to challenge the decision would be to petition the minister directly or head to court. The producers of Inxeba said they were studying the ruling and would consult their lawyers. Meanwhile‚ Nakhane Toure‚ one of the principal actors in the movie, spoke out about the decision on social media. “I’m allowed to be emotional. This is my life. These are our lives. And I f ***** g refuse to live in shame for your patriarchy to keep living. I’m an umXhosa and I don’t know what to do with what I love‚ but doesn’t love me. “We are vile. We are perverse. A virus that they will do anything to get rid of. I saw myself as a child‚ mocked for being effeminate.” He felt hurt‚ but would not be shamed, he said. – TshisaLIVE  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  The Film and Publications Board Appeal Tribunal has confirmed that it has overturned the 16 LS rating given to Inxeba (The Wound)‚ replacing it with an X18 rating — the same as hardcore porn. The new rating means that the film can only be distributed from an adult premises‚ which… February 14, 2018 Producers of Inxeba (The Wound) are seeking legal advice after the Film and Publications Board Appeal Tribunal overturned the 16 LS rating given to the film‚ replacing it with a X18 rating. The new classification is the highest of its kind and is the same given to hardcore porn. It… February 15, 2018 Nakhane Touré broke his silence on the ruling from the Film and Publication’s Appeal Tribunal that Inxeba (The Wound) be reclassified from 16 LS to X18 – a rating that is usually given to hard-core porn and can only be shown at designated adult premises. The ruling came after complaints… February 15, 2018