 I’d been struggling lately with trying to keep up with eating “cleaner” and better. For those who work, it’s often difficult to maintain a healthy eating plan, and the temptation to grab a takeaway is often hard to resist. I have started doing a lot of layered bowls and jars, which is something of a trend. I prep it all the day before in a jar and place it in the fridge. All I need to do then is pop it into my lunch bag the next morning on my way out.
This approach has helped me to eat healthier even when at the office. If I’m going on a long drive for work, I also take my jar of lunch with me to avoid bad habits on the road. ½ cup oats
¼ cup water
1 cup coconut milk
½ teaspoon turmeric powder
Blueberries
Mixed seeds
Dried cranberries
Desiccated coconut
Mint leaves
Honey In a pot, mix together water, coconut milk and turmeric. Cook oats in this mixture until soft. Alternatively, you can soak the oats overnight in the coconut milk and turmeric, and not cook.
Top with the blueberries, mixed seeds, desiccated coconut, mint leaves and honey. Note:
I love this recipe because I can prepare it overnight in a jar. But also, at the office, I have instant oats and I use this prepared in the microwave with the coconut milk and the turmeric. It’s quick and will take you less than 10 minutes to put together. 1 cup strawberries
1 cup blackberries
1 cup blueberries
¼ cup almonds, roasted
For the dressing:
Juice from two limes
1 tablespoon honey Rinse all the ingredients and layer into a jar, ending with the nuts. Mix together dressing ingredients and drizzle over.
Note:
You can make this recipe in advance and the jar holds for up to three days in the fridge, but do not add the dressing and the nuts. This recipe is also quite flexible because you can add apples, bananas, kiwi, nectarines, for example. etc. Just drizzle lemon juice over the apples and banana to avoid discoloration. ½ cup white wine vinegar
2 Tbsp extra-virgin olive oil
2 cloves garlic, finely chopped
¼ cup fresh flat-leaf parsley, finely chopped
2 cups chickpeas, drained and rinsed
1 cup carrots, sliced
1 medium red pepper, diced
1 medium yellow pepper, diced
2 cups red cabbage, shredded
1 cup sliced cucumber
8 cups mixed salad leaves
½ cup sunflower seeds Combine vinegar, oil, garlic and parsley in a small bowl; whisk to blend.
Evenly divide dressing between four jars. Set aside.
Evenly layer chickpeas, carrots, peppers, cabbage, cucumber, salad greens and sunflower seeds on top of dressing in jars.
Note:
Again, I love the convenience of this recipe because it uses very simple ingredients. Instead of the chickpeas you can also use beans (black or kidney beans).I also sometimes add tuna or sliced chicken breast on top to make it meaty.
You can also do this with any vegetables you have available in your fridge BUTTERNUT soup was the weight-loss secret for reality TV star Kelly Osbourne, who claims a vegan version of the South African winter favourite helped her to lose 30kg. "For me, eating to maintain or lose weight isn't about one food, it's about making healthy choices all day long," Osbourne said.… August 19, 2013 Just Ella Bella blogger Eleanor Douglas-Meyers keeps her picky eater happy with this recipe for three-ingredient pancakes     My son’s all time favourite food is the humble pancake ... I can't tell you how it started or why the best pancake topping is apparently cream cheese, but he loves… February 7, 2018 THE juicer, the spiraliser, the coffee pod machine and the smoothie maker – we’ve had them all. Now, the latest gizmo to shake up the food world is refreshingly low-tech: the jar. Or, specifically, a jar full of salad. Finished rolling your eyes yet? I know, it sounded like a… August 1, 2015