Three women have been arrested for sending police on an all-night wild goose chase after they claimed a 10-year-old girl had been kidnapped. Police spokesman Captain Andre Beetge said the alleged incident happened at about 9pm on Sunday. The women claimed were taken from the Truckers Inn in Wells Estate. “They gave an elaborate story of how they got a lift in a taxi and were then forced by six males into another vehicle close to Corobrick on the M17 and Swartkops Road,” Beetge said. “They were apparently forced to leave a 10-year-old girl behind in a red Toyota Tazz before being taken to an open field where they were assaulted for no reason.” The women then allegedly said they were dropped off in Seyisi Street, New Brighton where they contacted police and told them the girl was still with the men. “A kidnapping case was opened at New Brighton and police searched throughout the night and morning for the kidnapped 10-year-old girl. However, police got suspicious about the story and, after careful questioning, it emerged that the whole story was a lie,” Beetge said. “All three women, aged 23, 33 and 34 have been arrested for perjury at Swartkops police station.” The women are expected to appear in the Motherwell Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday. Motherwell cluster commander, Major-General Dawie Rabie, warned against opening false cases. “Opening false cases not only wastes valuable police resources, but also causes police to be distracted from real and serious other crimes that needs police assistance,” he said. “Perpetrators will face the law as criminals, and not as victims.”  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here. More than two dozen suspected thugs – some on the Bay’s most wanted list – were arrested in a series of operations over two days. This was revealed yesterday following the operations in which 25 suspects were arrested. More than 50 detectives from various police stations in the Motherwell cluster were… January 11, 2017 Eight rape cases where social media platforms were used to befriend the victims – over a six-month period – are under investigation in Port Elizabeth. According to police, most of the cases are believed to be unrelated, sparking fears that sexual predators have devised new ways to lure victims to… September 16, 2017 A woman abducted and held hostage for ransom was safely rescued on Thursday night‚ but three officers were wounded in a shootout with the kidnappers during the cash drop. The 36-year-old woman was kidnapped at her home in Nirvana‚ Polokwane‚ on Tuesday‚ Hawks spokesman Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said in a… March 18, 2016