Producers of Inxeba (The Wound) are seeking legal advice after the Film and Publications Board Appeal Tribunal overturned the 16 LS rating given to the film‚ replacing it with a X18 rating. The new classification is the highest of its kind and is the same given to hardcore porn. It means that the movie has been pulled from cinemas and can now only be shown at a “designated adult premise‚” which requires a special licence. “We’re obviously disappointed in the outcome‚ given how it has classified this important work of art that explores themes around the construction of masculinities as an x-rated film. We have sought advice from legal representatives‚ who are studying the decision‚ and we will advise on our way forward in due course‚” producers of the film said. The ruling came after the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa) called for the banning of the film and for the age restriction to be upped. The film has received public backlash for its depiction of the traditional ritual of ukwaluka – a Xhosa tradition into manhood – as well as sexual identity in the form of a gay love story. The decision to classify it in the same category as porn got sharp criticism on social media.     The Film and Publications Board Appeal Tribunal has confirmed that it has overturned the 16 LS rating given to Inxeba (The Wound)‚ replacing it with an X18 rating — the same as hardcore porn. The new rating means that the film can only be distributed from an adult premises‚ which… February 14, 2018 The producers of controversial movie Inxeba breathed a sigh of relief yesterday as Walmer Park Shopping Centre’s NuMetro cinema started screening the film in Port Elizabeth. This comes after the producers laid formal complaints with human rights bodies at the weekend to enable screening of the film in the Eastern… February 6, 2018 Complaints laid with rights bodies in bid to ensure East Cape screenings The producers, director and writers of acclaimed but controversial film Inxeba defended it at the weekend and laid formal complaints with human rights bodies in a bid to screen the film in the Eastern Cape after its premiere… February 5, 2018