David versus Goliath or top versus bottom are two ways of viewing tonight’s apparently lopsided PRO14 clash between high-riding Leinster and the struggling Southern Kings. On paper this looks like a mismatch, though the never-say-die Southern Kings will point out that matches are not played on paper. Leinster are riding high at the top of Conference B, while the Kings are marooned at the bottom and still hunting for a first win, after 15 games. Although the Southern Kings insist they should never be written off, the omens are not good for the struggling South Africans in Dublin. In a testing start to the PRO14, the Kings have leaked a massive 603 points as rival teams have feasted on their defensive frailties. Included in those points are 86 tries, which gives an idea of the battle the Kings have been fighting on the defensive front. Damage limitation will probably be the name of the game for the South Africans. It has been a tough three match European tour for the PRO14 rookies, with defeats against Ulster and the Ospreys proceeding tonight’s clash. How much gas the Southern Kings have left in the tank remains to be seen after their stout defensive effort against the Ospreys. After leading 12-7 at the break, the Kings were eventually overpowered by the Welsh side, who dominated proceedings in the second half at the Liberty Stadium. But the Kings will have taken heart from a display in which the Ospreys only forged after late penalty tries – and two yellow cards. Kings coach Deon Davids has shuffled his backline for tonight’s clash. Michael Makase, who was on the left wing against Ospreys, has been moved to his favoured position of right wing, while Anthonie Volmink, who missed out against the Ospreys, has been restored to the left wing. Yaw Penxe, who was at the right wing in the last game, is the fullback. Davids and captain Michael Willemse said despite the disappointment of two defeats on tour, they were determined to finish on a high note. “Leinster are a very good team and we will need to be organised on defence against them,” Davids said. “It is also important that we try and play the game in the right areas and clinical in using our opportunities when we get quality ball.” Tonight’s teams are: Southern Kings: (Nos 15 to 9): Yaw Penxe, Michael Makase, Berton Klaasen, Luzuko Vulindlu, Anthonie Volmink, Martin du Toit, Rowan Gouws. (Nos 1 to 8) Schalk Ferreira, Michael Willemse (capt), Pieter Scholtz, Stephan Greeff, Arthur de Wee, Eital Bredenkamp, Martinus Burger and Andisa Ntsila. Replacements: (Nos 16 to 23): Stephan Coetzee, Johan Smith, Luvuyo Pupuma, Lindokuhle Welemu, Ruaan Lerm, Juan-Phillip Smith, Barend Janse van Rensburg and Jacques Nel. Leinster (Nos 15 to 9): Dave Kearney, Barry Daly, Garry Ringrose, Isa Nacewa (capt), James Lowe, Ciaran Frawley, Nick McCarthy. (Nos 1 to 8) Ed Byrne, Bryan Byrne, Michael Bent, Mick Kearney, Ian Nagle, Josh Murphy, Will Connors and Max Deegan. Replacements: (Nos 16 to 23): James Tracy, Peter Dooley, Adam Coyle, Ross Molony, Peadar Timmins, Jamison Gibson-Park, Noel Reid and Jordan Larmour. Referee: Dan Jones (Wales). The match will be shown live on SS1 at 9:35pm Marauding player triggers Cheetahs’ second victory over Bay team in a week Marauding Cheetahs centre Nico Lee was once again a thorn in the flesh for the Southern Kings when he triggered their downfall for the second time in seven days on Saturday. After a hat-trick of tries in the… January 22, 2018 The time for excuses was over after his team slumped to a 31-10 defeat against Leinster at a near-empty Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium on Saturday, said disappointed Southern Kings captain Michael Willemse. Kings officials had been hoping for a 10 000-strong crowd to watch the first Pro14 match in Port… September 18, 2017 Struggling team still part of the PRO14 and expected to show improvement – SA Rugby There are no plans to boot the battling Southern Kings out of the PRO14, despite their dismal record of 13 consecutive defeats since joining the European league in September. That was the assurance given by… February 1, 2018