It was another action-packed weekend of water polo for Collegiate, with the U14A team winning the Jason Murray tournament and the first team playing in the Alexander Road Festival. The U14 group created history by winning the Jason Murray tournament, hosted by Selborne, for the first time. The tournament is held in memory of Jason Murray, one of the boys tragically killed in a school bus accident more than a decade ago. The tournament brings together teams from Port Elizabeth, Grahamstown and East London. Collegiate went unbeaten through the tournament, scoring 36 goals in six games while conceding only five. The final was an all-Port Elizabeth affair, pitting traditional rivals Collegiate and Pearson against each other. Collegiate ran out 3-0 winners in a game they controlled from the first whistle. Special mention must be made of Iman Akomolafe, who was named attacker of the tournament after some fine displays. The team will travel to Cape Town this week for the Reddam tournament. The Alex festival attracts schools from Cape Town, Stellenbosch, George, Grahamstown and Port Elizabeth. The festival does not have a winner – schools merely play in a round-robin style format. The Collegiate team fared well, winning nine of their 11 fixtures, good preparation for what will be a gruelling St Peter’s tournament in Johannesburg next week.  Using WhatsApp? Join our WhatsApp community to get your free daily news brief and breaking news alerts on your phone! Simply add HeraldLIVE’s number, +27 66 354 7020, as a contact to your phone. You will not be able to receive our WhatsApp updates unless we’re a contact. Then send us a WhatsApp message with your name, surname and the word NEWS. For more information click here.  GREY High took the honours when Pearson hosted their inaugural Stayers first team boys' water polo tournament in Summerstrand at the weekend. Fourteen teams vied for the Van Stadens Cup from Friday to Sunday. Grey took on old rivals Selborne in the final and emerged 13-6 winners. The tournament saw… October 21, 2014 COLLEGIATE registered a solid 50-run win over Victoria Park in their schools girls' cricket fixture last week. Batting first after winning the toss, the Collegiate top-order players did well to take their total to 101. On a big field, which made it difficult to score boundaries, the Collegiate batsmen rotated… March 18, 2014 COLLEGIATE were pipped in the final second to end runners-up in the Shaun Fuchs Cup U15 national waterpolo tournament hosted by Crawford College in Johannesburg at the weekend. The Port Elizabeth girls did exceptionally well to win all eight of their pool games, advancing to the semifinals where they defeated… February 25, 2014