The discovery of seven butchered rhinos in a single day has shocked conservationists who are battling gangs of armed poachers in KwaZuluNatal’s flagship Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Game Reserve. Ezemvelo KwaZulu-Natal Wildlife spokesman Musa Mntambi confirmed yesterday that seven rhinos were found poached and dehorned in the Makhamisa section of the park on Wednesday – all within about 800m of each other – although two appeared to have died about two weeks earlier. Responding to criticism over why it had taken so long for two of the carcasses to be detected and whether this was an indictment of Ezemvelo’s ability to monitor and control poaching in the 96 000ha reserve‚ Mntambo said: “Our field rangers are highly skilled and use a number of strategies to detect dead animals‚ including observing vulture behaviour. “However‚ vultures only eat the carcasses that are visible. The rhinos killed two weeks before they were discovered were killed under very thick bush, which made it difficult for them to be seen from above. “However‚ if it were not for the vultures‚ we might not yet have discovered the five killed last week. “Our field rangers noticed the carrion birds converging at a particular spot and went there to check. “On arrival they discovered five [dead] rhinos. As a norm‚ once a carcass is found we search the area to see if there are any other carcasses around. “During the search of the vicinity, we discovered the two rhinos which were 800m or so from the five discovered with the help of vultures.” However‚ a former senior ranger in the Hluhluwe‚ iMfolozi and Giants Castle reserves said he believed the latest discoveries were indicative of “a massive internal problem” in Ezemvelo. Former senior ranger Gordon Bailey said: “If well-planned‚ regular patrols were carried out‚ field rangers would soon get to know the rhino concentrations in their respective areas. “Obviously‚ I can no longer remain silent‚” he said. Two attacks in three weeks on Eastern Cape reserve leave total of five animals dead In a blow for anti-poaching efforts in the Eastern Cape, five rhinos have been killed in two separate attacks on the same private game reserve in the past three weeks. In the latest attack at… October 25, 2017 Michael Kimberley and Gareth Wilson THREE white rhinos were found dead and a fourth, pregnant and barely alive, had to be shot by a game ranger after they were poisoned and dehorned by poachers. The grisly discovery at the Lalibela Game Reserve near Grahamstown yesterday came only three days after… September 27, 2012 Two rhinos have been killed – with one dehorned – in the first poaching incident in the Eastern Cape this year. The white rhinos, from the eZulu Game Reserve between Bedford and Grahamstown, were found on Monday. According to authorities, one rhino was staggering around after being wounded. This is… February 7, 2018