One of Cape Town’s top criminal lawyers was shot dead on Tuesday while dropping his children at school. Advocate Pete Mihalik‚ 50‚ was killed in what witnesses described as an execution outside Reddam House Atlantic Seaboard in Green Point‚ his partner Bruce Hendricks told TimesLIVE It is understood that Mihalik’s eight-year-old son was injured in the shooting. His daughter was unhurt. Mihalik's wife committed suicide several years ago. Sources said Mihalik had bodyguards but “the shooter went up to the car window and just killed him”. Paramedics arrived on the scene but were unable to save him. There was a single bullet hole in the driver’s door window of Mihalik’s Mercedes-Benz AMG. An eyewitness said he heard two gunshots and saw a silver-grey vehicle with GP number plates speed away from the scene. “One man was in the vehicle as the other came running back. He got in as the car screeched away from the scene‚” said the man‚ who did not want to be named. Police were at the school and pupils were being escorted out. Police spokesperson Sergeant Noloyiso Rwexana said: “Detectives of the anti-gang unit and SAPS crime scene experts are combing the scene for clues following a shooting incident that occurred on the corner of Cavalcade and Thornhill roads in Green Point this morning at around 7.35am. “According to reports‚ a 50-year-old man was shot in his head and fatally wounded in his vehicle by an unidentified suspect who is yet to be arrested. “The suspect was seen fleeing the scene in a metallic grey VW Polo. The victim’s eight-year-old son sustained an injury during the incident and was admitted to hospital. “The circumstances surrounding the incident are being investigated and anyone with information is kindly requested to contact Crime Stop on 08600 10111.” As well as Jason Rohde‚ the Johannesburg businessman accused of murdering his wife‚ Susan‚ at Spier in Stellenbosch in 2017‚ Mihalik’s clients include some of Cape Town’s leading gangsters. Noorudien Hassan‚ with whom Mihalik worked on a number of gang-related matters‚ was gunned down outside his Lansdowne home in November 2016. The man Mihalk referred to as “my little brother” was involved in several high-profile cases‚ and represented murder accused David Forbes as well as suspected drug peddlar Irshaad Laher. “High-flyer” gang leaders Mihalik represented include alleged Quinton “Mr Big” Marinus‚ Ralph Stanfield and Laher. Marinus has been tried and acquitted of murder‚ robbery and perlemoen poaching and has had run-ins with the SA Revenue Service. Five years ago‚ his plush Plattekloof home was auctioned after a successful application by Sars for his sequestration. He owed Sars more than R2m. Suspected 28s gang boss Ralph Stanfield was arrested this month after cops raided his garage in Bishop Lavis and found several stolen cars. He has also been embroiled in firearm and murder cases. The person who answered the phone at Reddam said she had no comment.